Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: BACKGROUND Paralysis or amputation of an arm results in the loss of the ability to orient the hand and grasp, manipulate, and carry objects, functions that are essential for activities of daily living. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Brain-machine interfaces could provide a solution to restoring many of these lost functions. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: We therefore tested whether an individual with tetraplegia could rapidly achieve neurological control of a high-performance prosthetic limb using this type of an interface. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: METHODS We implanted two 96-channel intracortical microelectrodes in the motor cortex of a 52-year-old individual with tetraplegia. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Brain-machine-interface training was done for 13 weeks with the goal of controlling an anthropomorphic prosthetic limb with seven degrees of freedom (three-dimensional translation, three-dimensional orientation, one-dimensional grasping). Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: The participant's ability to control the prosthetic limb was assessed with clinical measures of upper limb function. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01364480. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: FINDINGS The participant was able to move the prosthetic limb freely in the three-dimensional workspace on the second day of training. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: After 13 weeks, robust seven-dimensional movements were performed routinely. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Mean success rate on target-based reaching tasks was 91·6% (SD 4·4) versus median chance level 6·2% (95% CI 2·0-15·3). Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Improvements were seen in completion time (decreased from a mean of 148 s [SD 60] to 112 s [6]) and path efficiency (increased from 0·30 [0·04] to 0·38 [0·02]). Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: The participant was also able to use the prosthetic limb to do skilful and coordinated reach and grasp movements that resulted in clinically significant gains in tests of upper limb function. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: No adverse events were reported. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: INTERPRETATION With continued development of neuroprosthetic limbs, individuals with long-term paralysis could recover the natural and intuitive command signals for hand placement, orientation, and reaching, allowing them to perform activities of daily living. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: FUNDING Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, National Institutes of Health, Department of Veterans Affairs, and UPMC Rehabilitation Institute. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: The Bacillus subtilis clpC operon is regulated by two stress induction pathways relying on either sigmaB or a class III stress induction mechanism acting at a sigmaA-like promoter. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: When the clpC operon was placed under the control of the isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)-inducible Pspac promoter, dramatic repression of the natural clpC promoters fused to a lacZ reporter gene was noticed after IPTG induction. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: This result strongly indicated negative regulation of the clpC operon by one of its gene products. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Indeed, the negative regulator could be identified which is encoded by the first gene of the clpC operon, ctsR, containing a predicted helix-turn-helix DNA-binding motif. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Deletion of ctsR abolished the negative regulation and resulted in high expression of both the clpC operon and the clpP gene under nonstressed conditions. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Nevertheless, a further increase in clpC and clpP mRNA levels was observed after heat shock, even in the absence of sigmaB, suggesting a second induction mechanism at the vegetative promoter. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Two-dimensional gel analysis and mRNA studies showed that the expression of other class III stress genes was at least partially influenced by the ctsR deletion. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Studies with different clpC promoter fragments either fused to the reporter gene bgaB or used in gel mobility shift experiments with the purified CtsR protein revealed a possible target region where the repressor seemed to bind in vivo and in vitro. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Our data demonstrate that the CtsR protein acts as a global repressor of the clpC operon, as well as other class III heat shock genes, by preventing unstressed transcription from either the sigmaB- or sigmaA-dependent promoter and might be inactivated or dissociate under inducing stress conditions. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: It has been proposed that epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in mammary epithelial cells and breast cancer cells generates stem cell features, and that the presence of EMT characteristics in claudin-low breast tumors reveals their origin in basal stem cells. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: It remains to be determined, however, whether EMT is an inherent property of normal basal stem cells, and if the presence of a mesenchymal-like phenotype is required for the maintenance of all their stem cell properties. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: We used nontumorigenic basal cell lines as models of normal stem cells/progenitors and demonstrate that these cell lines contain an epithelial subpopulation ("EpCAM+," epithelial cell adhesion molecule positive [EpCAM(pos)]/CD49f(high)) that spontaneously generates mesenchymal-like cells ("Fibros," EpCAM(neg)/CD49f(med/low)) through EMT. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Importantly, stem cell/progenitor properties such as regenerative potential, high aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 activity, and formation of three-dimensional acini-like structures predominantly reside within EpCAM+ cells, while Fibros exhibit invasive behavior and mammosphere-forming ability. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: A gene expression profiling meta-analysis established that EpCAM+ cells show a luminal progenitor-like expression pattern, while Fibros most closely resemble stromal fibroblasts but not stem cells. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Moreover, Fibros exhibit partial myoepithelial traits and strong similarities with claudin-low breast cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Finally, we demonstrate that Slug and Zeb1 EMT-inducers control the progenitor and mesenchymal-like phenotype in EpCAM+ cells and Fibros, respectively, by inhibiting luminal differentiation. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: In conclusion, nontumorigenic basal cell lines have intrinsic capacity for EMT, but a mesenchymal-like phenotype does not correlate with the acquisition of global stem cell/progenitor features. Relevant:
Query: 0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. Document: Based on our findings, we propose that EMT in normal basal cells and claudin-low breast cancers reflects aberrant/incomplete myoepithelial differentiation. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Improved sequencing technologies offer unprecedented opportunities for investigating the role of rare genetic variation in common disease. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: However, there are considerable challenges with respect to study design, data analysis and replication. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Using pooled next-generation sequencing of 507 genes implicated in the repair of DNA in 1,150 samples, an analytical strategy focused on protein-truncating variants (PTVs) and a large-scale sequencing case–control replication experiment in 13,642 individuals, here we show that rare PTVs in the p53-inducible protein phosphatase PPM1D are associated with predisposition to breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: PPM1D PTV mutations were present in 25 out of 7,781 cases versus 1 out of 5,861 controls (P = 1.12 × 10−5), including 18 mutations in 6,912 individuals with breast cancer (P = 2.42 × 10−4) and 12 mutations in 1,121 individuals with ovarian cancer (P = 3.10 × 10−9). Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Notably, all of the identified PPM1D PTVs were mosaic in lymphocyte DNA and clustered within a 370-base-pair region in the final exon of the gene, carboxy-terminal to the phosphatase catalytic domain. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Functional studies demonstrate that the mutations result in enhanced suppression of p53 in response to ionizing radiation exposure, suggesting that the mutant alleles encode hyperactive PPM1D isoforms. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Thus, although the mutations cause premature protein truncation, they do not result in the simple loss-of-function effect typically associated with this class of variant, but instead probably have a gain-of-function effect. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Our results have implications for the detection and management of breast and ovarian cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: More generally, these data provide new insights into the role of rare and of mosaic genetic variants in common conditions, and the use of sequencing in their identification. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: The quantification and characterization of circulating immune cells provide key indicators of human health and disease. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: To identify the relative effects of environmental and genetic factors on variation in the parameters of innate and adaptive immune cells in homeostatic conditions, we combined standardized flow cytometry of blood leukocytes and genome-wide DNA genotyping of 1,000 healthy, unrelated people of Western European ancestry. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: We found that smoking, together with age, sex and latent infection with cytomegalovirus, were the main non-genetic factors that affected variation in parameters of human immune cells. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Genome-wide association studies of 166 immunophenotypes identified 15 loci that showed enrichment for disease-associated variants. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Finally, we demonstrated that the parameters of innate cells were more strongly controlled by genetic variation than were those of adaptive cells, which were driven by mainly environmental exposure. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Our data establish a resource that will generate new hypotheses in immunology and highlight the role of innate immunity in susceptibility to common autoimmune diseases. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Both environmental factors and genetic factors influence human immunity. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Albert and colleagues leverage data from the Milieu Intérieur Consortium to comprehensively describe the effects of lifestyle, environment and genetics on human innate and adaptive immunity. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have now identified at least 2,000 common variants that appear associated with common diseases or related traits (http://www.genome.gov/gwastudies), hundreds of which have been convincingly replicated. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: It is generally thought that the associated markers reflect the effect of a nearby common (minor allele frequency >0.05) causal site, which is associated with the marker, leading to extensive resequencing efforts to find causal sites. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: We propose as an alternative explanation that variants much less common than the associated one may create "synthetic associations" by occurring, stochastically, more often in association with one of the alleles at the common site versus the other allele. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Although synthetic associations are an obvious theoretical possibility, they have never been systematically explored as a possible explanation for GWAS findings. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: Here, we use simple computer simulations to show the conditions under which such synthetic associations will arise and how they may be recognized. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: We show that they are not only possible, but inevitable, and that under simple but reasonable genetic models, they are likely to account for or contribute to many of the recently identified signals reported in genome-wide association studies. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: We also illustrate the behavior of synthetic associations in real datasets by showing that rare causal mutations responsible for both hearing loss and sickle cell anemia create genome-wide significant synthetic associations, in the latter case extending over a 2.5-Mb interval encompassing scores of "blocks" of associated variants. Relevant:
Query: 1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. Document: In conclusion, uncommon or rare genetic variants can easily create synthetic associations that are credited to common variants, and this possibility requires careful consideration in the interpretation and follow up of GWAS signals. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: OBJECTIVES To carry out a further survey of archived appendix samples to understand better the differences between existing estimates of the prevalence of subclinical infection with prions after the bovine spongiform encephalopathy epizootic and to see whether a broader birth cohort was affected, and to understand better the implications for the management of blood and blood products and for the handling of surgical instruments. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: DESIGN Irreversibly unlinked and anonymised large scale survey of archived appendix samples. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: SETTING Archived appendix samples from the pathology departments of 41 UK hospitals participating in the earlier survey, and additional hospitals in regions with lower levels of participation in that survey. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: SAMPLE 32,441 archived appendix samples fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin and tested for the presence of abnormal prion protein (PrP). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: RESULTS Of the 32,441 appendix samples 16 were positive for abnormal PrP, indicating an overall prevalence of 493 per million population (95% confidence interval 282 to 801 per million). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: The prevalence in those born in 1941-60 (733 per million, 269 to 1596 per million) did not differ significantly from those born between 1961 and 1985 (412 per million, 198 to 758 per million) and was similar in both sexes and across the three broad geographical areas sampled. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: Genetic testing of the positive specimens for the genotype at PRNP codon 129 revealed a high proportion that were valine homozygous compared with the frequency in the normal population, and in stark contrast with confirmed clinical cases of vCJD, all of which were methionine homozygous at PRNP codon 129. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: CONCLUSIONS This study corroborates previous studies and suggests a high prevalence of infection with abnormal PrP, indicating vCJD carrier status in the population compared with the 177 vCJD cases to date. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: These findings have important implications for the management of blood and blood products and for the handling of surgical instruments. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: We report a case of preclinical variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) in a patient who died from a non-neurological disorder 5 years after receiving a blood transfusion from a donor who subsequently developed vCJD. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: Protease-resistant prion protein (PrP(res)) was detected by western blot, paraffin-embedded tissue blot, and immunohistochemistry in the spleen, but not in the brain. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: Immunohistochemistry for prion protein was also positive in a cervical lymph node. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: The patient was a heterozygote at codon 129 of PRNP, suggesting that susceptibility to vCJD infection is not confined to the methionine homozygous PRNP genotype. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: These findings have major implications for future estimates and surveillance of vCJD in the UK. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: BACKGROUND For women with oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive early breast cancer, treatment with tamoxifen for 5 years substantially reduces the breast cancer mortality rate throughout the first 15 years after diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: We aimed to assess the further effects of continuing tamoxifen to 10 years instead of stopping at 5 years. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: METHODS In the worldwide Adjuvant Tamoxifen: Longer Against Shorter (ATLAS) trial, 12,894 women with early breast cancer who had completed 5 years of treatment with tamoxifen were randomly allocated to continue tamoxifen to 10 years or stop at 5 years (open control). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: Allocation (1:1) was by central computer, using minimisation. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: After entry (between 1996 and 2005), yearly follow-up forms recorded any recurrence, second cancer, hospital admission, or death. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: We report effects on breast cancer outcomes among the 6846 women with ER-positive disease, and side-effects among all women (with positive, negative, or unknown ER status). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: Long-term follow-up still continues. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: This study is registered, number ISRCTN19652633. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: FINDINGS Among women with ER-positive disease, allocation to continue tamoxifen reduced the risk of breast cancer recurrence (617 recurrences in 3428 women allocated to continue vs 711 in 3418 controls, p=0·002), reduced breast cancer mortality (331 deaths vs 397 deaths, p=0·01), and reduced overall mortality (639 deaths vs 722 deaths, p=0·01). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: The reductions in adverse breast cancer outcomes appeared to be less extreme before than after year 10 (recurrence rate ratio [RR] 0·90 [95% CI 0·79–1·02] during years 5–9 and 0·75 [0·62–0·90] in later years; breast cancer mortality RR 0·97 [0·79–1·18] during years 5–9 and 0·71 [0·58–0·88] in later years). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: The cumulative risk of recurrence during years 5–14 was 21·4% for women allocated to continue versus 25·1% for controls; breast cancer mortality during years 5–14 was 12·2% for women allocated to continue versus 15·0% for controls (absolute mortality reduction 2·8%). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: Treatment allocation seemed to have no effect on breast cancer outcome among 1248 women with ER-negative disease, and an intermediate effect among 4800 women with unknown ER status. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: Among all 12,894 women, mortality without recurrence from causes other than breast cancer was little affected (691 deaths without recurrence in 6454 women allocated to continue versus 679 deaths in 6440 controls; RR 0·99 [0·89–1·10]; p=0·84). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: For the incidence (hospitalisation or death) rates of specific diseases, RRs were as follows: pulmonary embolus 1·87 (95% CI 1·13–3·07, p=0·01 [including 0·2% mortality in both treatment groups]), stroke 1·06 (0·83–1·36), ischaemic heart disease 0·76 (0·60–0·95, p=0·02), and endometrial cancer 1·74 (1·30–2·34, p=0·0002). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: The cumulative risk of endometrial cancer during years 5–14 was 3·1% (mortality 0·4%) for women allocated to continue versus 1·6% (mortality 0·2%) for controls (absolute mortality increase 0·2%). Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: INTERPRETATION For women with ER-positive disease, continuing tamoxifen to 10 years rather than stopping at 5 years produces a further reduction in recurrence and mortality, particularly after year 10. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: These results, taken together with results from previous trials of 5 years of tamoxifen treatment versus none, suggest that 10 years of tamoxifen treatment can approximately halve breast cancer mortality during the second decade after diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: 1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. Document: FUNDING Cancer Research UK, UK Medical Research Council, AstraZeneca UK, US Army, EU-Biomed. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: BACKGROUND Neonatal mortality accounts for almost 40 per cent of under-five child mortality, globally. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: An understanding of the factors related to neonatal mortality is important to guide the development of focused and evidence-based health interventions to prevent neonatal deaths. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: This study aimed to identify the determinants of neonatal mortality in Indonesia, for a nationally representative sample of births from 1997 to 2002. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: METHODS The data source for the analysis was the 2002-2003 Indonesia Demographic and Health Survey from which survival information of 15,952 singleton live-born infants born between 1997 and 2002 was examined. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Multilevel logistic regression using a hierarchical approach was performed to analyze the factors associated with neonatal deaths, using community, socio-economic status and proximate determinants. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: RESULTS At the community level, the odds of neonatal death was significantly higher for infants from East Java (OR = 5.01, p = 0.00), and for North, Central and Southeast Sulawesi and Gorontalo combined (OR = 3.17, p = 0.03) compared to the lowest neonatal mortality regions of Bali, South Sulawesi and Jambi provinces. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: A progressive reduction in the odds was found as the percentage of deliveries assisted by trained delivery attendants in the cluster increased. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The odds of neonatal death were higher for infants born to both mother and father who were employed (OR = 1.84, p = 0.00) and for infants born to father who were unemployed (OR = 2.99, p = 0.02). Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The odds were also higher for higher rank infants with a short birth interval (OR = 2.82, p = 0.00), male infants (OR = 1.49, p = 0.01), smaller than average-sized infants (OR = 2.80, p = 0.00), and infant's whose mother had a history of delivery complications (OR = 1.81, p = 0.00). Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Infants receiving any postnatal care were significantly protected from neonatal death (OR = 0.63, p = 0.03). Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: CONCLUSION Public health interventions directed at reducing neonatal death should address community, household and individual level factors which significantly influence neonatal mortality in Indonesia. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Low birth weight and short birth interval infants as well as perinatal health services factors, such as the availability of skilled birth attendance and postnatal care utilization should be taken into account when planning the interventions to reduce neonatal mortality in Indonesia. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: OBJECTIVES To explore the use of local civil registration data to assess the perinatal mortality in a typical rural county in a less developed province in China, 1999-2000. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: DESIGN Retrospective cohort study. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Pregnancies in a cohort of women followed from registration of pregnancy to outcome of infant seven days after birth. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: SETTING Routine family planning records in 20 rural townships in eastern China. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: SUBJECTS 3697 pregnancies registered by the local family planning system during 1999. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Abortions, stillbirths, early neonatal mortality, perinatal mortality. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: RESULTS Only three cases were lost to follow up. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The average age of the women at pregnancy was 25.9 years. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Three hundred and twelve pregnancies were aborted and 240 ended in miscarriage (total 552, 15%). Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The perinatal mortality rate was 69 per 1000 births, the rate of stillbirth was 24 per 1000 births, and the early neonatal mortality was 46 per 1000 live births. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The early neonatal mortality was 29 in boys and 69 in girls per 1000 live births. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The perinatal mortality rate increased notably with parity and was higher in townships having lower income per capita. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: CONCLUSIONS The family planning system at the most local level is a useful data source for studying perinatal mortality in rural China. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The perinatal mortality rate in the study county was higher than previously reported for both rural and urban areas in China. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: The results by parity and sex of the infant raise concern over the impact of the one child policy. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: INTRODUCTION Various perinatal factors, including birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and parental smoking, have been postulated to affect breast cancer risk in daughters by altering the hormonal environment of the developing fetal mammary glands. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Despite ample biologic plausibility, epidemiologic studies to date have yielded conflicting results. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: We investigated the associations between perinatal factors and subsequent breast cancer risk through meta-analyses. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: METHODS We reviewed breast cancer studies published from January 1966 to February 2007 that included data on birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and maternal or paternal smoking. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Meta-analyses using random effect models were employed to summarize the results. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: RESULTS We found that heavier birth weights were associated with increased breast cancer risk, with studies involving five categories of birth weight identifying odds ratios (ORs) of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04 to 1.48) for 4,000 g or more and 1.15 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.26) for 3,500 g to 3,999 g, relative to a birth weight of 2,500 to 2,599 g. These studies provided no support for a J-shaped relationship of birthweight to risk. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Support for an association with birthweight was also derived from studies based on three birth weight categories (OR 1.15 [95% CI 1.01 to 1.31] for > or =4,000 g relative to <3,000 g) and two birth weight categories (OR 1.09 [95% CI 1.02 to 1.18] for > or =3,000 g relative to <3,000 g). Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Women born to older mothers and twins were also at some increased risk, but the results were heterogeneous across studies and publication years. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: Birth order, prematurity, and maternal smoking were unrelated to breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: 5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. Document: CONCLUSION Our findings provide some support for the hypothesis that in utero exposures reflective of higher endogenous hormone levels could affect risk for development of breast cancer in adulthood. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: INTRODUCTION Elevated plasma total homocysteine is a major risk for coronary artery disease (CAD). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Methyltetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is a main regulatory enzyme in homocysteine metabolism; a common C677T mutation in the MTHFR gene results in decreased enzyme activity, and contributes to increased homocysteine levels and decreased folate levels. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: We investigated the frequency of MTHFR C677T alleles in a Korean population, determined the genotype-specific threshold levels of folate or vitamin B12, and investigated the relationship between the TT genotype and the risk of CAD. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: MATERIALS AND METHODS We enrolled a study population of 163 CAD patients and 50 control subjects, and screened the MTHFR C677T polymorphism using real-time PCR with melting point analysis. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Levels of plasma homocysteine, folate and vitamin B12 were also determined. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: We then defined the genotype-specific threshold values of folate and vitamin B12 required to keep homocysteine levels in a normal range for individuals of each MTHFR C677T genotype. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: RESULTS The frequency of the TT genotype was 18% in control subjects and 26% in patients group (P>0.05). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Individuals homozygous for the TT genotype had significantly elevated homocysteine levels (P<0.05). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: The genotype-specific folate threshold level was significantly higher in TT individuals than in the CC or CT genotypes. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: The OR of individuals with low folate status and the TT genotype to estimate the relative risk of CAD was 2.2 and the OR of those with high folate status and the TT genotype was 1.5 (95% CI, 0.5-9.6 and 0.7-3.2, respectively). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: CONCLUSION We were able to define a gene-nutrient interaction that shows a higher risk for CAD based on specific threshold folate levels required by different MTHFR C677T genotypes in a Korean population. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: CONTEXT High plasma homocysteine levels are a risk factor for mortality and vascular disease in observational studies of patients with chronic kidney disease. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Folic acid and B vitamins decrease homocysteine levels in this population but whether they lower mortality is unknown. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether high doses of folic acid and B vitamins administered daily reduce mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Double-blind randomized controlled trial (2001-2006) in 36 US Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Median follow-up was 3.2 years for 2056 participants aged 21 years or older with advanced chronic kidney disease (estimated creatinine clearance < or =30 mL/min) (n = 1305) or end-stage renal disease (n = 751) and high homocysteine levels (> or = 15 micromol/L). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: INTERVENTION Participants received a daily capsule containing 40 mg of folic acid, 100 mg of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B6), and 2 mg of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B12) or a placebo. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary outcome was all-cause mortality. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Secondary outcomes included myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, amputation of all or part of a lower extremity, a composite of these 3 plus all-cause mortality, time to initiation of dialysis, and time to thrombosis of arteriovenous access in hemodialysis patients. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: RESULTS Mean baseline homocysteine level was 24.0 micromol/L in the vitamin group and 24.2 micromol/L in the placebo group. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: It was lowered 6.3 micromol/L (25.8%; P < .001) in the vitamin group and 0.4 micromol/L (1.7%; P = .14) in the placebo group at 3 months, but there was no significant effect on mortality (448 vitamin group deaths vs 436 placebo group deaths) (hazard ratio [HR], 1.04; 95% CI, 0.91-1.18). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: No significant effects were demonstrated for secondary outcomes or adverse events: there were 129 MIs in the vitamin group vs 150 for placebo (HR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.67-1.08), 37 strokes in the vitamin group vs 41 for placebo (HR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.58-1.40), and 60 amputations in the vitamin group vs 53 for placebo (HR, 1.14; 95% CI, 0.79-1.64). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: In addition, the composite of MI, stroke, and amputations plus mortality (P = .85), time to dialysis (P = .38), and time to thrombosis in hemodialysis patients (P = .97) did not differ between the vitamin and placebo groups. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: CONCLUSION Treatment with high doses of folic acid and B vitamins did not improve survival or reduce the incidence of vascular disease in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal disease. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00032435. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: High plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) concentration is reported to be a risk factor for vascular diseases. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: We investigated the extent to which serum folate and plasma tHcy respond to a high intake of natural folate from food. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Thirty-seven healthy females volunteered t o participate in a crossover dietary intervention. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: The study included a baseline period and two 5-week diet periods (low- and high-folate diets) with a 3-week washout in between. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: The low-folate diet contained one serving of both vegetables and fruit/d, while during the high-folate diet the subjects ate at least seven servings of vegetables, berries, and citrus fruit/d. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: Serum and erythrocyte (RBC) folate, serum vitamin B (12), and plasma tHcy concentrations were measured at the base-line and at the end of each diet period. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: The mean concentrations of serum and RBC folate were 11.0 (SD 3.0) nmol/l and 412 (SD 120) nmol/l at the end of the low-folate diet and 78 (95 % CI 62, 94) % and 14 (95 % CI 8, 20) % higher in response to the high-folate diet (P< 0.001). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: The serum concentration of vitamin B12 remained unchanged during the intervention. Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: The mean plasma tHcy concentration was 8.0 pmol/ at the end of the low-folate diet and decreased by 13 (95% CI 9, 18) % in response to the high-folate diet (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. Document: In conclusion, a diet high in fresh berries, citrus fruit, and vegetables effectively increases serum and RBC folate and decreases plasma homocysteine. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Objective: To evaluate the frequency of α -gene, s-gene, and hemoglobin variant numbers in subjects with Microcytic hypochromic anemia. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Methodology: In total out of 850, 340 subjects with microcytic hypochromic anemia [MCV<80fl; MCH<27pg] from Southwest part of Iran, were studied in Research Center of Thalassemia and Hemoglobinopathies (RCTH) which is the only center working on hematology and oncology in Southwest (Khuzestan) region of Iran. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: These include 325 individuals: 171 with Beta-thalassemia trait, 88 with Alpha-thalassemia trait, 13 with thalassemia major, 11 with hemoglobin variants (HbS, HbC, and HbD Punjab ) and 42 with iron-deficiency anemia. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: The rest 15 patients diagnosed with no definite etiology. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Results: Genotyping for -α 3.7 , -α 4.2 , – α PA , - α 5NT and - - MED was done with gap-PCR. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: The overall frequency of - α 3.7 deletion in 325 individuals is 20%. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Genotyping for 23 most known s-gene mutations was done with direct mutation analysis by Amplification Refractory Mutation System (ARMS). Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: The most frequent mutations were CD 36/37, IVS II-I, and IVS I-110 with 9.7%, 11.7%, and 3.5% respected frequencies in 340 patients. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: There was statistically significant difference between Beta-thalassemia trait and Beta-thalassemia Major in case of MCV (p- value = 0.25) and MCH (P–value =0.23) indices, and also MCH index between Beta-thalassemia trait and Hb Variants (P-value = 0.04). Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Conclusion: The α -gene and s-gene mutation is quite common in the Southwest part of Iran. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Molecular genotyping of α -thalassemia and s-thalassemia help to diagnose unexplained microcytosis, and thus prevent unnecessary iron supplementation. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: BACKGROUND The heritable haemoglobinopathy alpha(+)-thalassaemia is caused by the reduced synthesis of alpha-globin chains that form part of normal adult haemoglobin (Hb). Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Individuals homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia have microcytosis and an increased erythrocyte count. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity confers considerable protection against severe malaria, including severe malarial anaemia (SMA) (Hb concentration < 50 g/l), but does not influence parasite count. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: We tested the hypothesis that the erythrocyte indices associated with alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity provide a haematological benefit during acute malaria. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Data from children living on the north coast of Papua New Guinea who had participated in a case-control study of the protection afforded by alpha(+)-thalassaemia against severe malaria were reanalysed to assess the genotype-specific reduction in erythrocyte count and Hb levels associated with acute malarial disease. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: We observed a reduction in median erythrocyte count of approximately 1.5 x 10(12)/l in all children with acute falciparum malaria relative to values in community children (p < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: We developed a simple mathematical model of the linear relationship between Hb concentration and erythrocyte count. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: This model predicted that children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia lose less Hb than children of normal genotype for a reduction in erythrocyte count of >1.1 x 10(12)/l as a result of the reduced mean cell Hb in homozygous alpha(+)-thalassaemia. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: In addition, children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia require a 10% greater reduction in erythrocyte count than children of normal genotype (p = 0.02) for Hb concentration to fall to 50 g/l, the cutoff for SMA. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: We estimated that the haematological profile in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia reduces the risk of SMA during acute malaria compared to children of normal genotype (relative risk 0.52; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.24-1.12, p = 0.09). Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: CONCLUSIONS The increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia may contribute substantially to their protection against SMA. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: A lower concentration of Hb per erythrocyte and a larger population of erythrocytes may be a biologically advantageous strategy against the significant reduction in erythrocyte count that occurs during acute infection with the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: This haematological profile may reduce the risk of anaemia by other Plasmodium species, as well as other causes of anaemia. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Other host polymorphisms that induce an increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis may confer a similar advantage. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: In Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) alpha-synuclein (alphaS) pathology is seen that displays a predictable topographic distribution. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: There are two staging/categorization systems, Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: i.e. Braak's and McKeith's, currently in use for the assessment of alphaS pathology. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: The aim of these diagnostic strategies in pathology is, in addition to assess the stage/severity of pathology, to assess the probabilities of the related clinical symptomatology i.e. dementia and extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Herein, we assessed the applicability of these two staging/categorization systems and the frequency of dementia and EPS in a cohort of 226 alphaS-positive-subjects. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: These subject were selected from a large autopsy sample (n = 1,720), irrespective of the clinical presentation, based on the detection of alphaS-immunoreactivity (IR) in one of the most vulnerable nuclei; in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, substantia nigra and basal forebrain. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: The frequency of alphaS-IR lesions in this large cohort was 14% (248 out of 1,720). Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: If applicable, each of the 226 subjects with all required material available was assigned a neuropathological stage/category of PD/DLB and finally the neuropathological data was analyzed in relation to dementia and EPS. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: 83% of subjects showed a distribution pattern of alphaS-IR that was compatible with the current staging/categorization systems. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Around 55% of subjects with widespread alphaS pathology (Braak's PD stages 5-6) lacked clinical signs of dementia or EPS. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: Similarly, in respect to those subjects that fulfilled the McKeith criteria for diffuse neocortical category and displaying only mild concomitant Alzheimer's disease-related pathology, only 48% were demented and 54% displayed EPS. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: It is noteworthy that some subjects (17%) deviated from the suggested caudo-rostral propagation suggesting alternative routes of progression, perhaps due to concomitant diseases and genetic predisposition. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: In conclusion, our results do indeed confirm that current staging/categorization systems can readily be applied to most of the subjects with alphaS pathology. Relevant:
Query: A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. Document: However, finding that around half of the subjects with abundant alphaS pathology remain neurologically intact is intriguing and raises the question whether we do assess the actual disease process. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: OBJECTIVES To carry out a further survey of archived appendix samples to understand better the differences between existing estimates of the prevalence of subclinical infection with prions after the bovine spongiform encephalopathy epizootic and to see whether a broader birth cohort was affected, and to understand better the implications for the management of blood and blood products and for the handling of surgical instruments. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: DESIGN Irreversibly unlinked and anonymised large scale survey of archived appendix samples. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: SETTING Archived appendix samples from the pathology departments of 41 UK hospitals participating in the earlier survey, and additional hospitals in regions with lower levels of participation in that survey. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: SAMPLE 32,441 archived appendix samples fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin and tested for the presence of abnormal prion protein (PrP). Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: RESULTS Of the 32,441 appendix samples 16 were positive for abnormal PrP, indicating an overall prevalence of 493 per million population (95% confidence interval 282 to 801 per million). Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: The prevalence in those born in 1941-60 (733 per million, 269 to 1596 per million) did not differ significantly from those born between 1961 and 1985 (412 per million, 198 to 758 per million) and was similar in both sexes and across the three broad geographical areas sampled. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: Genetic testing of the positive specimens for the genotype at PRNP codon 129 revealed a high proportion that were valine homozygous compared with the frequency in the normal population, and in stark contrast with confirmed clinical cases of vCJD, all of which were methionine homozygous at PRNP codon 129. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: CONCLUSIONS This study corroborates previous studies and suggests a high prevalence of infection with abnormal PrP, indicating vCJD carrier status in the population compared with the 177 vCJD cases to date. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: These findings have important implications for the management of blood and blood products and for the handling of surgical instruments. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: We report a case of preclinical variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) in a patient who died from a non-neurological disorder 5 years after receiving a blood transfusion from a donor who subsequently developed vCJD. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: Protease-resistant prion protein (PrP(res)) was detected by western blot, paraffin-embedded tissue blot, and immunohistochemistry in the spleen, but not in the brain. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: Immunohistochemistry for prion protein was also positive in a cervical lymph node. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: The patient was a heterozygote at codon 129 of PRNP, suggesting that susceptibility to vCJD infection is not confined to the methionine homozygous PRNP genotype. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: These findings have major implications for future estimates and surveillance of vCJD in the UK. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: BACKGROUND Since 2004, several reported transfusion transmissions of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) in the United Kingdom have reawakened concerns about the possible risk of similar transmissions of nonvariant or classic forms of CJD. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS Patients with a CJD diagnosis and a history of donating blood were reported to the study coordinator. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: Through review of blood distribution and hospital records, the recipients of blood components from these donors were identified. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: We then determined each recipient's vital status and, if deceased, the cause(s) of death identified by matching the recipient's personal identifiers with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Death Index database. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: We conducted such searches after recipients were enrolled in this study and annually thereafter for those who remained alive. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: RESULTS The study included a total of 36 blood donors who subsequently developed CJD and 436 recipients. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: Through 2006, 91 of these recipients were still alive, 329 were deceased, and 16 were lost to follow-up. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: After transfusion, these three groups had survived a total of 2096.0 person-years. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: A total of 144 recipients survived 5 years or longer after transfusion and 68 of them had received blood donated 60 or fewer months before the onset of CJD in the donor. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: We identified no recipient with CJD. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: CONCLUSIONS The current results of this large, ongoing lookback study show no evidence of transfusion transmission of CJD. Relevant:
Query: A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. Document: They reinforce the conclusion that the risk, if any, of transfusion transmission of prion disease by CJD donors is significantly lower than the comparable risk of such transmission by vCJD donors. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs) are involved in RNA editing that converts adenosine residues to inosine specifically in double-stranded RNAs. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: In this study, we investigated the interaction of the RNA editing mechanism with the RNA interference (RNAi) machinery and found that ADAR1 forms a complex with Dicer through direct protein-protein interaction. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Most importantly, ADAR1 increases the maximum rate (Vmax) of pre-microRNA (miRNA) cleavage by Dicer and facilitates loading of miRNA onto RNA-induced silencing complexes, identifying a new role of ADAR1 in miRNA processing and RNAi mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: ADAR1 differentiates its functions in RNA editing and RNAi by the formation of either ADAR1/ADAR1 homodimer or Dicer/ADAR1 heterodimer complexes, respectively. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: As expected, the expression of miRNAs is globally inhibited in ADAR1(-/-) mouse embryos, which, in turn, alters the expression of their target genes and might contribute to their embryonic lethal phenotype. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Drosophila Dicer-2 generates small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) from long double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), whereas Dicer-1 produces microRNAs (miRNAs) from pre-miRNA. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: What makes the two Dicers specific for their biological substrates? Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: We find that purified Dicer-2 can efficiently cleave pre-miRNA, but that inorganic phosphate and the Dicer-2 partner protein R2D2 inhibit pre-miRNA cleavage. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Dicer-2 contains C-terminal RNase III domains that mediate RNA cleavage and an N-terminal helicase motif, whose function is unclear. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: We show that Dicer-2 is a dsRNA-stimulated ATPase that hydrolyzes ATP to ADP; ATP hydrolysis is required for Dicer-2 to process long dsRNA, but not pre-miRNA. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Wild-type Dicer-2, but not a mutant defective in ATP hydrolysis, can generate siRNAs faster than it can dissociate from a long dsRNA substrate. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: We propose that the Dicer-2 helicase domain uses ATP to generate many siRNAs from a single molecule of dsRNA before dissociating from its substrate. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Control of translation is a fundamental source of regulation in gene expression. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: The induction of protein synthesis by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) critically contributes to enduring modifications of synaptic function, but how BDNF selectively affects only a minority of expressed mRNAs is poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: We report that BDNF rapidly elevates Dicer, increasing mature miRNA levels and inducing RNA processing bodies in neurons. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: BDNF also rapidly induces Lin28, causing selective loss of Lin28-regulated miRNAs and a corresponding upregulation in translation of their target mRNAs. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Binding sites for Lin28-regulated miRNAs are necessary and sufficient to confer BDNF responsiveness to a transcript. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Lin28 deficiency, or expression of a Lin28-resistant Let-7 precursor miRNA, inhibits BDNF translation specificity and BDNF-dependent dendrite arborization. Relevant:
Query: ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. Document: Our data establish that specificity in BDNF-regulated translation depends upon a two-part posttranscriptional control of miRNA biogenesis that generally enhances mRNA repression in association with GW182 while selectively derepressing and increasing translation of specific mRNAs. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Expression of the intermediate filament protein keratin 17 (K17) is robustly upregulated in inflammatory skin diseases and in many tumors originating in stratified and pseudostratified epithelia. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: We report that autoimmune regulator (Aire), a transcriptional regulator, is inducibly expressed in human and mouse tumor keratinocytes in a K17-dependent manner and is required for timely onset of Gli2-induced skin tumorigenesis in mice. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: The induction of Aire mRNA in keratinocytes depends on a functional interaction between K17 and the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein hnRNP K. Further, K17 colocalizes with Aire protein in the nucleus of tumor-prone keratinocytes, and each factor is bound to a specific promoter region featuring an NF-κB consensus sequence in a relevant subset of K17- and Aire-dependent proinflammatory genes. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: These findings provide radically new insight into keratin intermediate filament and Aire function, along with a molecular basis for the K17-dependent amplification of inflammatory and immune responses in diseased epithelia. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: The expression of melanoma-associated antigens (MAA) being limited to normal melanocytes and melanomas, MAAs are ideal targets for immunotherapy and melanoma vaccines. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: As MAAs are derived from self, immune responses to these may be limited by thymic tolerance. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: The extent to which self-tolerance prevents efficient immune responses to MAAs remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: The autoimmune regulator (AIRE) controls the expression of tissue-specific self-antigens in thymic epithelial cells (TECs). Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: The level of antigens expressed in the TECs determines the fate of auto-reactive thymocytes. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Deficiency in AIRE leads in both humans (APECED patients) and mice to enlarged autoreactive immune repertoires. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Here we show increased IgG levels to melanoma cells in APECED patients correlating with autoimmune skin features. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Similarly, the enlarged T cell repertoire in AIRE(-/-) mice enables them to mount anti-MAA and anti-melanoma responses as shown by increased anti-melanoma antibodies, and enhanced CD4(+) and MAA-specific CD8(+) T cell responses after melanoma challenge. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: We show that thymic expression of gp100 is under the control of AIRE, leading to increased gp100-specific CD8(+) T cell frequencies in AIRE(-/-) mice. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: TRP-2 (tyrosinase-related protein), on the other hand, is absent from TECs and consequently TRP-2 specific CD8(+) T cells were found in both AIRE(-/-) and AIRE(+/+) mice. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: This study emphasizes the importance of investigating thymic expression of self-antigens prior to their inclusion in vaccination and immunotherapy strategies. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: An emerging family of kinases related to the Drosophila Aurora and budding yeast Ipl1 proteins has been implicated in chromosome segregation and mitotic spindle formation in a number of organisms. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Unlike other Aurora/Ipl1-related kinases, the Caenorhabditis elegans orthologue, AIR-2, is associated with meiotic and mitotic chromosomes. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: AIR-2 is initially localized to the chromosomes of the most mature prophase I–arrested oocyte residing next to the spermatheca. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: This localization is dependent on the presence of sperm in the spermatheca. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: After fertilization, AIR-2 remains associated with chromosomes during each meiotic division. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: However, during both meiotic anaphases, AIR-2 is present between the separating chromosomes. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: AIR-2 also remains associated with both extruded polar bodies. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: In the embryo, AIR-2 is found on metaphase chromosomes, moves to midbody microtubules at anaphase, and then persists at the cytokinesis remnant. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Disruption of AIR-2 expression by RNA- mediated interference produces entire broods of one-cell embryos that have executed multiple cell cycles in the complete absence of cytokinesis. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: The embryos accumulate large amounts of DNA and microtubule asters. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Polar bodies are not extruded, but remain in the embryo where they continue to replicate. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: The cytokinesis defect appears to be late in the cell cycle because transient cleavage furrows initiate at the proper location, but regress before the division is complete. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Additionally, staining with a marker of midbody microtubules revealed that at least some of the components of the midbody are not well localized in the absence of AIR-2 activity. Relevant:
Query: AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. Document: Our results suggest that during each meiotic and mitotic division, AIR-2 may coordinate the congression of metaphase chromosomes with the subsequent events of polar body extrusion and cytokinesis. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Application of stem cell biology to breast cancer research has been limited by the lack of simple methods for identification and isolation of normal and malignant stem cells. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Utilizing in vitro and in vivo experimental systems, we show that normal and cancer human mammary epithelial cells with increased aldehyde dehydrogenase activity (ALDH) have stem/progenitor properties. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: These cells contain the subpopulation of normal breast epithelium with the broadest lineage differentiation potential and greatest growth capacity in a xenotransplant model. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: In breast carcinomas, high ALDH activity identifies the tumorigenic cell fraction, capable of self-renewal and of generating tumors that recapitulate the heterogeneity of the parental tumor. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: In a series of 577 breast carcinomas, expression of ALDH1 detected by immunostaining correlated with poor prognosis. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: These findings offer an important new tool for the study of normal and malignant breast stem cells and facilitate the clinical application of stem cell concepts. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: PD-L1 is an immunoinhibitory molecule that suppresses the activation of T cells, leading to the progression of tumors. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Overexpression of PD-L1 in cancers such as gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, esophageal cancer, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, and bladder cancer is associated with poor clinical outcomes. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: In contrast, PD-L1 expression correlates with better clinical outcomes in breast cancer and merkel cell carcinoma. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: The prognostic value of PD-L1 expression in lung cancer, colorectal cancer, and melanoma is controversial. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Blocking antibodies that target PD-1 and PD-L1 have achieved remarkable response rates in cancer patients who have PD-L1-overexpressing tumors. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: However, using PD-L1 as an exclusive predictive biomarker for cancer immunotherapy is questionable due to the low accuracy of PD-L1 immunohistochemistry staining. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Factors that affect the accuracy of PD-L1 immunohistochemistry staining are as follows. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: First, antibodies used in different studies have different sensitivity. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Second, in different studies, the cut-off value of PD-L1 staining positivity is different. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Third, PD-L1 expression in tumors is not uniform, and sampling time and location may affect the results of PD-L1 staining. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Therefore, better understanding of tumor microenvironment and use of other biomarkers such as gene marker and combined index are necessary to better identify patients who will benefit from PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint blockade therapy. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: CONTEXT The growth inhibitory effect of tamoxifen, which is used for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer, is mediated by its metabolites, 4-hydroxytamoxifen and endoxifen. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: The formation of active metabolites is catalyzed by the polymorphic cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) enzyme. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether CYP2D6 variation is associated with clinical outcomes in women receiving adjuvant tamoxifen. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Retrospective analysis of German and US cohorts of patients treated with adjuvant tamoxifen for early stage breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: The 1325 patients had diagnoses between 1986 and 2005 of stage I through III breast cancer and were mainly postmenopausal (95.4%). Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Last follow-up was in December 2008; inclusion criteria were hormone receptor positivity, no metastatic disease at diagnosis, adjuvant tamoxifen therapy, and no chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: DNA from tumor tissue or blood was genotyped for CYP2D6 variants associated with reduced (*10, *41) or absent (*3, *4, *5) enzyme activity. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Women were classified as having an extensive (n=609), heterozygous extensive/intermediate (n=637), or poor (n=79) CYP2D6 metabolism. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Time to recurrence, event-free survival, disease-free survival, and overall survival. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: RESULTS Median follow-up was 6.3 years. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: At 9 years of follow-up, the recurrence rates were 14.9% for extensive metabolizers, 20.9% for heterozygous extensive/intermediate metabolizers, and 29.0% for poor metabolizers, and all-cause mortality rates were 16.7%, 18.0%, and 22.8%, respectively. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Compared with extensive metabolizers, there was a significantly increased risk of recurrence for heterozygous extensive/intermediate metabolizers (time to recurrence adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 1.40; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.04-1.90) and for poor metabolizers (time to recurrence HR, 1.90; 95% CI, 1.10-3.28). Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: Compared with extensive metabolizers, those with decreased CYP2D6 activity (heterozygous extensive/intermediate and poor metabolism) had worse event-free survival (HR, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.06-1.68) and disease-free survival (HR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.03-1.61), but there was no significant difference in overall survival (HR, 1.15; 95% CI, 0.88-1.51). Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. Document: CONCLUSION Among women with breast cancer treated with tamoxifen, there was an association between CYP2D6 variation and clinical outcomes, such that the presence of 2 functional CYP2D6 alleles was associated with better clinical outcomes and the presence of nonfunctional or reduced-function alleles with worse outcomes. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Application of stem cell biology to breast cancer research has been limited by the lack of simple methods for identification and isolation of normal and malignant stem cells. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Utilizing in vitro and in vivo experimental systems, we show that normal and cancer human mammary epithelial cells with increased aldehyde dehydrogenase activity (ALDH) have stem/progenitor properties. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: These cells contain the subpopulation of normal breast epithelium with the broadest lineage differentiation potential and greatest growth capacity in a xenotransplant model. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: In breast carcinomas, high ALDH activity identifies the tumorigenic cell fraction, capable of self-renewal and of generating tumors that recapitulate the heterogeneity of the parental tumor. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: In a series of 577 breast carcinomas, expression of ALDH1 detected by immunostaining correlated with poor prognosis. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: These findings offer an important new tool for the study of normal and malignant breast stem cells and facilitate the clinical application of stem cell concepts. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) induces a pathological complete response (pCR) in ∼30% of patients with breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: However, many patients have residual cancer after chemotherapy, which correlates with a higher risk of metastatic recurrence and poorer outcome than those who achieve a pCR. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: We hypothesized that molecular profiling of tumors after NAC would identify genes associated with drug resistance. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Digital transcript counting was used to profile surgically resected breast cancers after NAC. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Low concentrations of dual specificity protein phosphatase 4 (DUSP4), an ERK phosphatase, correlated with high post-NAC tumor cell proliferation and with basal-like breast cancer (BLBC) status. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: BLBC had higher DUSP4 promoter methylation and gene expression patterns of Ras-ERK pathway activation relative to other breast cancer subtypes. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: DUSP4 overexpression increased chemotherapy-induced apoptosis, whereas DUSP4 depletion dampened the response to chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Reduced DUSP4 expression in primary tumors after NAC was associated with treatment-refractory high Ki-67 scores and shorter recurrence-free survival. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Finally, inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) synergized with docetaxel treatment in BLBC xenografts. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Thus, DUSP4 downregulation activates the Ras-ERK pathway in BLBC, resulting in an attenuated response to anti-cancer chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Obesity has a complicated relationship to both breast cancer risk and the clinical behavior of the established disease. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: In postmenopausal women, particularly the elderly, various measures of obesity have been positively associated with risk. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: However, before menopause increased body weight is inversely related to breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: In both premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer, the mechanisms by which body weight and obesity affect risk have been related to estrogenic activity. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Obesity has also been related to advanced disease at diagnosis and with a poor prognosis in both premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Breast cancer in African-American women, considering its relationship to obesity, exhibits some important differences from those described in white women, although the high prevalence of obesity in African-American women may contribute to the relatively poor prognosis compared with white American women. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Despite the emphasis on estrogens to explain the effects of obesity on breast cancer, other factors may prove to be equally or more important, particularly as they relate to expression of an aggressive tumor phenotype. Relevant:
Query: ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. Document: Among these, this review serves to stress insulin, insulin-like growth factor-I, and leptin, and their relationship to angiogenesis, and transcriptional factors. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a growing worldwide epidemic and an important risk factor for the development of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and hepatic cellular carcinoma (HCC). Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Despite the prevalence of NAFLD, lifestyle interventions involving exercise and weight loss are the only accepted treatments for this disease. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Over the last decade, numerous experimental compounds have been shown to improve NAFLD in preclinical animal models, and many of these therapeutics have been shown to increase the activity of the cellular energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Because AMPK activity is reduced by inflammation, obesity, and diabetes, increasing AMPK activity has been viewed as a viable therapeutic strategy to improve NAFLD. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: In this review, we propose three primary mechanisms by which AMPK activation may improve NAFLD. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: In addition, we examine the mechanisms by which AMPK is activated. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Finally, we identify 27 studies that have used AMPK activators to reduce NAFLD. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Future considerations for studies examining the relationship between AMPK and NAFLD are highlighted. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Fibrosis is a pathological result of a dysfunctional repair response to tissue injury and occurs in a number of organs, including the lungs1. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Cellular metabolism regulates tissue repair and remodelling responses to injury2-4. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: AMPK is a critical sensor of cellular bioenergetics and controls the switch from anabolic to catabolic metabolism5. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: However, the role of AMPK in fibrosis is not well understood. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Here, we demonstrate that in humans with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and in an experimental mouse model of lung fibrosis, AMPK activity is lower in fibrotic regions associated with metabolically active and apoptosis-resistant myofibroblasts. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Pharmacological activation of AMPK in myofibroblasts from lungs of humans with IPF display lower fibrotic activity, along with enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis and normalization of sensitivity to apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: In a bleomycin model of lung fibrosis in mice, metformin therapeutically accelerates the resolution of well-established fibrosis in an AMPK-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: These studies implicate deficient AMPK activation in non-resolving, pathologic fibrotic processes, and support a role for metformin (or other AMPK activators) to reverse established fibrosis by facilitating deactivation and apoptosis of myofibroblasts. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: In light of the emerging interplay between redox and metabolic signaling pathways we investigated the potential cross talk between nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and AMP-activated kinase (AMPK), central regulators of the cellular redox and energy balance, respectively. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Making use of xanthohumol (XN) as an activator of both the AMPK and the Nrf2 signaling pathway we show that AMPK exerts a positive influence on Nrf2/heme oxygenase (HO)-1 signaling in mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Genetic ablation and pharmacological inhibition of AMPK blunts Nrf2-dependent HO-1 expression by XN already at the mRNA level. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: XN leads to AMPK activation via interference with mitochondrial function and activation of liver kinase B1 as upstream AMPK kinase. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: The subsequent AMPK-mediated enhancement of the Nrf2/HO-1 response does not depend on inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin, inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3β, or altered abundance of Nrf2 (total and nuclear). Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: However, reduced endoplasmic reticulum stress was identified and elaborated as a step in the AMPK-augmented Nrf2/HO-1 response. Relevant:
Query: AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. Document: Overall, we shed more light on the hitherto incompletely understood cross talk between the LKB1/AMPK and the Nrf2/HO-1 axis revealing for the first time involvement of the unfolded protein response as an additional player and suggesting tight cooperation between signaling pathways controlling cellular redox, energy, or protein homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Efforts to develop drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown promise in animal studies, only to fail in human trials, suggesting a pressing need to study AD in human model systems. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), a variant of the APOE gene product and the major genetic risk factor for AD, we demonstrated that ApoE4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation, unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides, and that they displayed GABAergic neuron degeneration. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: ApoE4 increased Aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Converting ApoE4 to ApoE3 by gene editing rescued these phenotypes, indicating the specific effects of ApoE4. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Neurons that lacked APOE behaved similarly to those expressing ApoE3, and the introduction of ApoE4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from ApoE4. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Treatment of ApoE4-expressing neurons with a small-molecule structure corrector ameliorated the detrimental effects, thus showing that correcting the pathogenic conformation of ApoE4 is a viable therapeutic approach for ApoE4-related AD. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Alzheimer’s disease is the most common form of dementia, characterized by two pathological hallmarks: amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: The amyloid hypothesis of Alzheimer’s disease posits that the excessive accumulation of amyloid-β peptide leads to neurofibrillary tangles composed of aggregated hyperphosphorylated tau. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: However, to date, no single disease model has serially linked these two pathological events using human neuronal cells. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Mouse models with familial Alzheimer’s disease (FAD) mutations exhibit amyloid-β-induced synaptic and memory deficits but they do not fully recapitulate other key pathological events of Alzheimer’s disease, including distinct neurofibrillary tangle pathology. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Human neurons derived from Alzheimer’s disease patients have shown elevated levels of toxic amyloid-β species and phosphorylated tau but did not demonstrate amyloid-β plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Here we report that FAD mutations in β-amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 are able to induce robust extracellular deposition of amyloid-β, including amyloid-β plaques, in a human neural stem-cell-derived three-dimensional (3D) culture system. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: More importantly, the 3D-differentiated neuronal cells expressing FAD mutations exhibited high levels of detergent-resistant, silver-positive aggregates of phosphorylated tau in the soma and neurites, as well as filamentous tau, as detected by immunoelectron microscopy. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Inhibition of amyloid-β generation with β- or γ-secretase inhibitors not only decreased amyloid-β pathology, but also attenuated tauopathy. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: We also found that glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) regulated amyloid-β-mediated tau phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: We have successfully recapitulated amyloid-β and tau pathology in a single 3D human neural cell culture system. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Our unique strategy for recapitulating Alzheimer’s disease pathology in a 3D neural cell culture model should also serve to facilitate the development of more precise human neural cell models of other neurodegenerative disorders. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Reprogramming somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) resets their identity back to an embryonic age and, thus, presents a significant hurdle for modeling late-onset disorders. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: In this study, we describe a strategy for inducing aging-related features in human iPSC-derived lineages and apply it to the modeling of Parkinson's disease (PD). Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Our approach involves expression of progerin, a truncated form of lamin A associated with premature aging. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: We found that expression of progerin in iPSC-derived fibroblasts and neurons induces multiple aging-related markers and characteristics, including dopamine-specific phenotypes such as neuromelanin accumulation. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Induced aging in PD iPSC-derived dopamine neurons revealed disease phenotypes that require both aging and genetic susceptibility, such as pronounced dendrite degeneration, progressive loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression, and enlarged mitochondria or Lewy-body-precursor inclusions. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Thus, our study suggests that progerin-induced aging can be used to reveal late-onset age-related disease features in hiPSC-based disease models. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Efforts to develop drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown promise in animal studies, only to fail in human trials, suggesting a pressing need to study AD in human model systems. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), a variant of the APOE gene product and the major genetic risk factor for AD, we demonstrated that ApoE4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation, unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides, and that they displayed GABAergic neuron degeneration. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: ApoE4 increased Aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Converting ApoE4 to ApoE3 by gene editing rescued these phenotypes, indicating the specific effects of ApoE4. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Neurons that lacked APOE behaved similarly to those expressing ApoE3, and the introduction of ApoE4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from ApoE4. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Treatment of ApoE4-expressing neurons with a small-molecule structure corrector ameliorated the detrimental effects, thus showing that correcting the pathogenic conformation of ApoE4 is a viable therapeutic approach for ApoE4-related AD. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Alzheimer’s disease is the most common form of dementia, characterized by two pathological hallmarks: amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: The amyloid hypothesis of Alzheimer’s disease posits that the excessive accumulation of amyloid-β peptide leads to neurofibrillary tangles composed of aggregated hyperphosphorylated tau. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: However, to date, no single disease model has serially linked these two pathological events using human neuronal cells. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Mouse models with familial Alzheimer’s disease (FAD) mutations exhibit amyloid-β-induced synaptic and memory deficits but they do not fully recapitulate other key pathological events of Alzheimer’s disease, including distinct neurofibrillary tangle pathology. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Human neurons derived from Alzheimer’s disease patients have shown elevated levels of toxic amyloid-β species and phosphorylated tau but did not demonstrate amyloid-β plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Here we report that FAD mutations in β-amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 are able to induce robust extracellular deposition of amyloid-β, including amyloid-β plaques, in a human neural stem-cell-derived three-dimensional (3D) culture system. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: More importantly, the 3D-differentiated neuronal cells expressing FAD mutations exhibited high levels of detergent-resistant, silver-positive aggregates of phosphorylated tau in the soma and neurites, as well as filamentous tau, as detected by immunoelectron microscopy. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Inhibition of amyloid-β generation with β- or γ-secretase inhibitors not only decreased amyloid-β pathology, but also attenuated tauopathy. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: We also found that glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) regulated amyloid-β-mediated tau phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: We have successfully recapitulated amyloid-β and tau pathology in a single 3D human neural cell culture system. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Our unique strategy for recapitulating Alzheimer’s disease pathology in a 3D neural cell culture model should also serve to facilitate the development of more precise human neural cell models of other neurodegenerative disorders. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Reprogramming somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) resets their identity back to an embryonic age and, thus, presents a significant hurdle for modeling late-onset disorders. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: In this study, we describe a strategy for inducing aging-related features in human iPSC-derived lineages and apply it to the modeling of Parkinson's disease (PD). Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Our approach involves expression of progerin, a truncated form of lamin A associated with premature aging. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: We found that expression of progerin in iPSC-derived fibroblasts and neurons induces multiple aging-related markers and characteristics, including dopamine-specific phenotypes such as neuromelanin accumulation. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Induced aging in PD iPSC-derived dopamine neurons revealed disease phenotypes that require both aging and genetic susceptibility, such as pronounced dendrite degeneration, progressive loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression, and enlarged mitochondria or Lewy-body-precursor inclusions. Relevant:
Query: APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. Document: Thus, our study suggests that progerin-induced aging can be used to reveal late-onset age-related disease features in hiPSC-based disease models. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Gliomas arising in the brainstem and thalamus are devastating tumors that are difficult to surgically resect. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: To determine the genetic and epigenetic landscape of these tumors, we performed exomic sequencing of 14 brainstem gliomas (BSGs) and 12 thalamic gliomas. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: We also performed targeted mutational analysis of an additional 24 such tumors and genome-wide methylation profiling of 45 gliomas. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: This study led to the discovery of tumor-specific mutations in PPM1D, encoding wild-type p53-induced protein phosphatase 1D (WIP1), in 37.5% of the BSGs that harbored hallmark H3F3A mutations encoding p. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Lys27Met substitutions. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: PPM1D mutations were mutually exclusive with TP53 mutations in BSG and attenuated p53 activation in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: PPM1D mutations were truncating alterations in exon 6 that enhanced the ability of PPM1D to suppress the activation of the DNA damage response checkpoint protein CHK2. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: These results define PPM1D as a frequent target of somatic mutation and as a potential therapeutic target in brainstem gliomas. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Improved sequencing technologies offer unprecedented opportunities for investigating the role of rare genetic variation in common disease. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: However, there are considerable challenges with respect to study design, data analysis and replication. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Using pooled next-generation sequencing of 507 genes implicated in the repair of DNA in 1,150 samples, an analytical strategy focused on protein-truncating variants (PTVs) and a large-scale sequencing case–control replication experiment in 13,642 individuals, here we show that rare PTVs in the p53-inducible protein phosphatase PPM1D are associated with predisposition to breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: PPM1D PTV mutations were present in 25 out of 7,781 cases versus 1 out of 5,861 controls (P = 1.12 × 10−5), including 18 mutations in 6,912 individuals with breast cancer (P = 2.42 × 10−4) and 12 mutations in 1,121 individuals with ovarian cancer (P = 3.10 × 10−9). Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Notably, all of the identified PPM1D PTVs were mosaic in lymphocyte DNA and clustered within a 370-base-pair region in the final exon of the gene, carboxy-terminal to the phosphatase catalytic domain. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Functional studies demonstrate that the mutations result in enhanced suppression of p53 in response to ionizing radiation exposure, suggesting that the mutant alleles encode hyperactive PPM1D isoforms. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Thus, although the mutations cause premature protein truncation, they do not result in the simple loss-of-function effect typically associated with this class of variant, but instead probably have a gain-of-function effect. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Our results have implications for the detection and management of breast and ovarian cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: More generally, these data provide new insights into the role of rare and of mosaic genetic variants in common conditions, and the use of sequencing in their identification. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: BLM, WRN, and p53 are involved in the homologous DNA recombination pathway. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: The DNA structure-specific helicases, BLM and WRN, unwind Holliday junctions (HJ), an activity that could suppress inappropriate homologous recombination during DNA replication. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Here, we show that purified, recombinant p53 binds to BLM and WRN helicases and attenuates their ability to unwind synthetic HJ in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: The p53 248W mutant reduces abilities of both to bind HJ and inhibit helicase activities, whereas the p53 273H mutant loses these abilities. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Moreover, full-length p53 and a C-terminal polypeptide (residues 373-383) inhibit the BLM and WRN helicase activities, but phosphorylation at Ser(376) or Ser(378) completely abolishes this inhibition. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Following blockage of DNA replication, Ser(15) phospho-p53, BLM, and RAD51 colocalize in nuclear foci at sites likely to contain DNA replication intermediates in cells. Relevant:
Query: Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. Document: Our results are consistent with a novel mechanism for p53-mediated regulation of DNA recombinational repair that involves p53 post-translational modifications and functional protein-protein interactions with BLM and WRN DNA helicases. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Cells develop by reading mixed signals. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Nowhere is this clearer than in the highly dynamic processes that propel embryogenesis, when critical cell-fate decisions are made swiftly in response to well-orchestrated growthfactor combinations. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Learning how diverse signaling pathways are integrated is therefore essential for understanding physiology. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: This requires the identification, in tangible molecular terms, of key nodes for pathway integration that operate in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: A report in this issue, on the integration of Smad and Ras/MAPK pathways during neural induction (Pera et al. 2003), provides timely insights into the relevance of one such node. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Pera et al. (2003) report that FGF8 and IGF2—two growth factors that activate the Ras/MAPK pathway— favor neural differentiation and mesoderm dorsalization in Xenopus by inhibiting BMP (Bone Morphogenetic Protein) signaling. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Mesoderm is formed from ectoderm in response to Nodal-related signals from the endoderm at the blastula stage and beyond (Fig. 1; for review, see De Robertis et al. 2000). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: BMP induces differentiation of ectoderm into epidermal cell fates at the expense of neural fates, and it ventralizes the mesoderm at the expense of dorsal fates (for review, see Weinstein and HemmatiBrivanlou 1999; De Robertis et al. 2000). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Accordingly, neural differentiation and dorsal mesoderm formation are favored when BMP signaling is attenuated. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Noggin, Chordin, Cerberus, and Follistatin, secreted by the Spemann organizer on the dorsal side at the gastrula stage, facilitate the formation of neural tissue by sequestering BMP (Weinstein and Hemmati-Brivanlou 1999; De Robertis et al. 2000). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Experimentally blocking BMP signaling with a dominant-negative BMP receptor has a similar effect of promoting ectoderm neuralization (Weinstein and Hemmati-Brivanlou 1999). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: As it turns out, neural induction can also be achieved with FGF (fibroblast growth factor; Kengaku and Okamoto 1993; Lamb and Harland 1995; Hongo et al. 1999; Hardcastle et al. 2000; Streit et al. 2000; Wilson et al. 2000) and IGF (insulin-like growth factor; Pera et al. 2001; Richard-Parpaillon et al. 2002). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Injection of transcripts encoding FGF8 or IFG2 into one animal-pole blastomere of a fourto eight-cell embryo results in an expanded neural plate at the injected side (Pera et al. 2003). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Surprisingly, expression of a dominant-negative FGF receptor prevents neuralization of ectoderm explants by the BMP blocker Noggin (Launay et al. 1996). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Likewise, the potent neuralizing effect of Chordin can be blocked by a dominant-negative FGF receptor or a morpholino oligonucleotide targeting the IGF receptor (Pera et al. 2003). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Thus, the neuralizing effect of BMP inhibitors is somehow tied to FGF and IFG signaling. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: The question is, how? Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Because FGF8 and IFG2 activate MAPK, Pera et al. (2003) took heed from previous work showing that MAPK inhibits the BMP signal-transduction factor Smad1 (Kretzschmar et al. 1997a). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Smad1 is directly phosphorylated by the BMP receptor, resulting in Smad1 activation (Kretzschmar et al. 1997b), and by MAPK in response to EGF, resulting in Smad1 inhibition (Kretzschmar et al. 1997a; Fig. 2). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Smad transcription factors mediate gene responses to the entire TGF (Transforming Growth Factor) family, to which the BMPs belong (for review, see Massague 2000; Derynck and Zhang 2003). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Smads 1, 5, and 8 act primarily downstream of BMP receptors and Smads 2 and 3 downstream of TGF , Activin and Nodal receptors. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Smad proteins have two conserved globular domains—the MH1 and MH2 domains (Fig. 2). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: The MH1 domain is involved in DNA binding and the MH2 domain in binding to cytoplasmic retention factors, activated receptors, nucleoporins in the nuclear pore, and DNA-binding cofactors, coactivators, and corepressors in the nucleus (for review, see Shi and Massague 2003). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Receptor-mediated phosphorylation occurs at the carboxy-terminal sequence SXS. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: This enables the nuclear accumulation of Smads and their association with the shared partner Smad4 to form transcriptional complexes that are interpreted by the cell as a function of the context (Massague 2000). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Between the MH1 and MH2 domains lies a linker region of variable sequence and length. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Attention was drawn to this region when it was found that EGF (epidermal growth factor), a classical activator of the Ras/ MAPK pathway, causes phosphorylation of the Smad1 linker at four MAPK sites (PXSP sequences; Kretzschmar et al. 1997a). Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: This prevents the nuclear localization of Smad1 and inhibits BMP signaling. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Mutation of these E-MAIL j-massague@ski.mskcc.org; FAX (212) 717-3298. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Article and publication are at http://www.genesdev.org/cgi/doi/10.1101/ gad.1167003. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Little is known about the molecular basis of somatosensory mechanotransduction in mammals. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: We screened a library of peptide toxins for effects on mechanically activated currents in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: One conopeptide analogue, termed NMB-1 for noxious mechanosensation blocker 1, selectively inhibits (IC50 1 µM) sustained mechanically activated currents in a subset of sensory neurons. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Biotinylated NMB-1 retains activity and binds selectively to peripherin-positive nociceptive sensory neurons. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: The selectivity of NMB-1 was confirmed by the fact that it has no inhibitory effects on voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels, or ligand-gated channels such as acid-sensing ion channels or TRPA1 channels. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Conversely, the tarantula toxin, GsMTx-4, which inhibits stretch-activated ion channels, had no effects on mechanically activated currents in sensory neurons. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: In behavioral assays, NMB-1 inhibits responses only to high intensity, painful mechanical stimulation and has no effects on low intensity mechanical stimulation or thermosensation. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Unexpectedly, NMB-1 was found to also be an inhibitor of rapid FM1-43 loading (a measure of mechanotransduction) in cochlear hair cells. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: These data demonstrate that pharmacologically distinct channels respond to distinct types of mechanical stimuli and suggest that mechanically activated sustained currents underlie noxious mechanosensation. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: NMB-1 thus provides a novel diagnostic tool for the molecular definition of channels involved in hearing and pressure-evoked pain. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: Embryos have the ability to self-regulate and regenerate normal structures after being sectioned in half. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: How is such a morphogenetic field established? Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: We discovered that quadruple knockdown of ADMP and BMP2/4/7 in Xenopus embryos eliminates self-regulation, causing ubiquitous neural induction throughout the ectoderm. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: ADMP transcription in the Spemann organizer is activated at low BMP levels. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: When ventral BMP2/4/7 signals are depleted, Admp expression increases, allowing for self-regulation. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: ADMP has BMP-like activity and signals via the ALK-2 receptor. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: It is unable to signal dorsally because of inhibition by Chordin. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: The ventral BMP antagonists Sizzled and Bambi further refine the pattern. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: By transplanting dorsal or ventral wild-type grafts into ADMP/BMP2/4/7-depleted hosts, we demonstrate that both poles serve as signaling centers that can induce histotypic differentiation over considerable distances. Relevant:
Query: Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. Document: We conclude that dorsal and ventral BMP signals and their extracellular antagonists expressed under opposing transcriptional regulation provide a molecular mechanism for embryonic self-regulation. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Epitope vaccine based on the enzyme urease of Helicobacter pylori is a promising option for prophylactic and therapeutic vaccination against H. pylori infection. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: In our previous study, the epitope vaccine CTB-UA, which was composed of the mucosal adjuvant cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) and an epitope (UreA183–203) from the H. pylori urease A subunit (UreA) was constructed. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: This particular vaccine was shown to have good immunogenicity and immunoreactivity and could induce specific neutralizing antibodies, which exhibited effectively inhibitory effects on the enzymatic activity of H. pylori urease. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: In this study, the prophylactic and therapeutic efficacy of the epitope vaccine CTB-UA was evaluated in a BALB/c mice model. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: The experimental results indicated that oral prophylactic or therapeutic immunization with CTB-UA significantly decreased H. pylori colonization compared with oral immunization with PBS. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: The results also revealed that the protection was correlated with antigen-specific IgG, IgA, and mucosal secretory IgA antibody responses. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: CTB-UA may be a promising vaccine candidate for the control of H. pylori infection. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Epitope vaccine is a promising option for therapeutic vaccination against Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: In this study, we constructed a multi-epitope vaccine with five epitopes and mucosal adjuvant E. coli heat-labile enterotoxin B subunit (LTB) named HUepi-LTB and evaluated its therapeutic effect against H. pylori infection in BALB/c mice model. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: HUepi-LTB containing three Th epitopes from UreB and two B cell epitopes from UreB and HpaA was constructed and expressed in E. coli. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Oral therapeutic immunization with HUepi-LTB significantly decreased H. pylori colonization compared with oral immunization with PBS, and the protection was correlated with antigen-specific CD4+ T cells and IgG and mucosal IgA antibody responses. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: This multi-epitope vaccine may be a promising vaccine candidate that may help to control H. pylori infection. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Half the world's population is chronically infected with Helicobacter pylori, causing gastritis, gastric ulcers and an increased incidence of gastric adenocarcinoma. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Its proton-gated inner-membrane urea channel, HpUreI, is essential for survival in the acidic environment of the stomach. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: The channel is closed at neutral pH and opens at acidic pH to allow the rapid access of urea to cytoplasmic urease. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Urease produces NH(3) and CO(2), neutralizing entering protons and thus buffering the periplasm to a pH of roughly 6.1 even in gastric juice at a pH below 2.0. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Here we report the structure of HpUreI, revealing six protomers assembled in a hexameric ring surrounding a central bilayer plug of ordered lipids. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Each protomer encloses a channel formed by a twisted bundle of six transmembrane helices. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: The bundle defines a previously unobserved fold comprising a two-helix hairpin motif repeated three times around the central axis of the channel, without the inverted repeat of mammalian-type urea transporters. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Both the channel and the protomer interface contain residues conserved in the AmiS/UreI superfamily, suggesting the preservation of channel architecture and oligomeric state in this superfamily. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Predominantly aromatic or aliphatic side chains line the entire channel and define two consecutive constriction sites in the middle of the channel. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: Mutation of Trp 153 in the cytoplasmic constriction site to Ala or Phe decreases the selectivity for urea in comparison with thiourea, suggesting that solute interaction with Trp 153 contributes specificity. Relevant:
Query: Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. Document: The previously unobserved hexameric channel structure described here provides a new model for the permeation of urea and other small amide solutes in prokaryotes and archaea. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Over the past two decades there have been significant achievements in the control of a handful of important human tropical infections [1]. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: These achievements include the substantive reductions in the prevalence and incidence of the so-called neglected diseases such as lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, guinea worm, leprosy, and trachoma (Box 1) [2]. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Each of these neglected diseases is a poverty-promoting and often stigmatizing condition occurring primarily in rural areas of low-income countries (Box 2) [3]. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: They are ancient afflictions, described in the Bible and other ancient texts, which have burdened humanity for millennia [3]. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: But now, as a result of aggressive regional vertical interventions, there is a possibility that some neglected tropical infections could be eventually controlled to the point of elimination in some areas of endemicity [2–8]. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: In the case of guinea worm infection, disease eradication might also soon be possible [9]. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Box 2. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Common Features of the Neglected Tropical Diseases          Ancient afflictions that have burdened humanity for centuries      Poverty-promoting conditions      Associated with stigma      Rural areas of low-income countries and fragile states      No commercial markets for products that target these diseases      Interventions, when applied, have a history of success Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Immune cells continuously recirculate through lymph vessels en route from peripheral tissues to the blood. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Leuyte trafficking into and within lymph vessels is mediated by an interply with lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs). Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: However, lymphatic vessels are much more than mere conduits for fluid and immune cell transport. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Data accumulating during past several years indicate that LECs support T cell survival, induce tolerance to self-antigens, inhibit exaggerated T cell proliferation during immune response and maintain T cell memory. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Reciprocally, leukocytes impact LEC biology: lymphatic vessel permeability depends on DCs while lymphocytes regulate LEC proliferation during inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Altogether, these novel results provide important insights on intimate connections between LECs and leukocytes that contribute to the understanding of immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Blood and lymphatic vessels pervade almost all body tissues and have numerous essential roles in physiology and disease. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: The inner lining of these networks is formed by a single layer of endothelial cells, which is specialized according to the needs of the tissue that it supplies. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Whereas the general mechanisms of blood and lymphatic vessel development are being defined with increasing molecular precision, studies of the processes of endothelial specialization remain mostly descriptive. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Recent insights from genetic animal models illuminate how endothelial cells interact with each other and with their tissue environment, providing paradigms for vessel type- and organ-specific endothelial differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Delineating these governing principles will be crucial for understanding how tissues develop and maintain, and how their function becomes abnormal in disease. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: How oncogenic signalling coordinates glycolysis and anabolic biosynthesis in cancer cells remains unclear. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: We recently reported that the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglycerate mutase 1 (PGAM1) regulates anabolic biosynthesis by controlling intracellular levels of its substrate 3-phosphoglycerate and product 2-phosphoglycerate. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Here we report a novel mechanism in which Y26 phosphorylation enhances PGAM1 activation through release of inhibitory E19 that blocks the active site, stabilising cofactor 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate binding and H11 phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: We also report the crystal structure of H11-phosphorylated PGAM1 and find that phospho-H11 activates PGAM1 at least in part by promoting substrate 3-phosphoglycerate binding. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Moreover, Y26 phosphorylation of PGAM1 is common in human cancer cells and contributes to regulation of 3-phosphoglycerate and 2-phosphoglycerate levels, promoting cancer cell proliferation and tumour growth. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: As PGAM1 is a negative transcriptional target of TP53, and is therefore commonly upregulated in human cancers, these findings suggest that Y26 phosphorylation represents an additional acute mechanism underlying phosphoglycerate mutase 1 upregulation. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Ubiquitination controls a broad range of cellular functions. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: The last step of the ubiquitination pathway is regulated by enzyme type 3 (E3) ubiquitin ligases. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: E3 enzymes are responsible for substrate specificity and catalyze the formation of an isopeptide bond between a lysine residue of the substrate (or the N terminus of the substrate) and ubiquitin. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: MIR1 and MIR2 are two E3 ubiquitin ligases encoded by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus that mediate the ubiquitination of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) molecules and subsequent internalization. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Here, we found that MIR1, but not MIR2, promoted down-regulation of MHC I molecules lacking lysine residues in their intracytoplasmic domain. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: In the presence of MIR1, these MHC I molecules were ubiquitinated, and their association with ubiquitin was sensitive to beta2-mercaptoethanol, unlike lysine-ubiquitin bonds. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: This form of ubiquitination required a cysteine residue in the intracytoplasmic tail of MHC I molecules. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: An MHC I molecule containing a single cysteine residue in an artificial glycine and alanine intracytoplasmic domain was endocytosed and degraded in the presence of MIR1. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Thus, ubiquitination can occur on proteins lacking accessible lysines or an accessible N terminus. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Class B GPCRs can activate multiple signalling effectors with the potential to exhibit biased agonism in response to ligand stimulation. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Previously, we highlighted key TM domain polar amino acids that were crucial for the function of the GLP-1 receptor, a key therapeutic target for diabetes and obesity. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Using a combination of mutagenesis, pharmacological characterisation, mathematical and computational molecular modelling, this study identifies additional highly conserved polar residues located towards the TM helical boundaries of Class B GPCRs that are important for GLP-1 receptor stability and/or controlling signalling specificity and biased agonism. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: This includes (i) three positively charged residues (R3.30227, K4.64288, R5.40310) located at the extracellular boundaries of TMs 3, 4 and 5 that are predicted in molecular models to stabilise extracellular loop 2, a crucial domain for ligand affinity and receptor activation; (ii) a predicted hydrogen bond network between residues located in TMs 2 (R2.46176), 6 (R6.37348) and 7 (N7.61406 and E7.63408) at the cytoplasmic face of the receptor that is important for stabilising the inactive receptor and directing signalling specificity, (iii) residues at the bottom of TM 5 (R5.56326) and TM6 (K6.35346 and K6.40351) that are crucial for receptor activation and downstream signalling; (iv) residues predicted to be involved in stabilisation of TM4 (N2.52182 and Y3.52250) that also influence cell signalling. Relevant:
Query: Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. Document: Collectively, this work expands our understanding of peptide-mediated signalling by the GLP-1 receptor. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Stem cells are proposed to segregate chromosomes asymmetrically during self-renewing divisions so that older (‘immortal’) DNA strands are retained in daughter stem cells whereas newly synthesized strands segregate to differentiating cells. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Stem cells are also proposed to retain DNA labels, such as 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU), either because they segregate chromosomes asymmetrically or because they divide slowly. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: However, the purity of stem cells among BrdU-label-retaining cells has not been documented in any tissue, and the ‘immortal strand hypothesis’ has not been tested in a system with definitive stem cell markers. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Here we tested these hypotheses in haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), which can be highly purified using well characterized markers. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: We administered BrdU to newborn mice, mice treated with cyclophosphamide and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and normal adult mice for 4 to 10 days, followed by 70 days without BrdU. In each case, less than 6% of HSCs retained BrdU and less than 0.5% of all BrdU-retaining haematopoietic cells were HSCs, revealing that BrdU has poor specificity and poor sensitivity as an HSC marker. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Sequential administration of 5-chloro-2-deoxyuridine and 5-iodo-2-deoxyuridine indicated that all HSCs segregate their chromosomes randomly. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Division of individual HSCs in culture revealed no asymmetric segregation of the label. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Thus, HSCs cannot be identified on the basis of BrdU-label retention and do not retain older DNA strands during division, indicating that these are not general properties of stem cells. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: The most conspicuous event in the cell cycle is the alignment of chromosomes in metaphase. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Chromosome alignment fosters faithful segregation through the formation of bi-oriented attachments of kinetochores to spindle microtubules. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Notably, numerous kinetochore-microtubule (k-MT) attachment errors are present in early mitosis (prometaphase), and the persistence of those errors is the leading cause of chromosome mis-segregation in aneuploid human tumour cells that continually mis-segregate whole chromosomes and display chromosomal instability. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: How robust error correction is achieved in prometaphase to ensure error-free mitosis remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Here we show that k-MT attachments in prometaphase cells are considerably less stable than in metaphase cells. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: The switch to more stable k-MT attachments in metaphase requires the proteasome-dependent destruction of cyclin A in prometaphase. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Persistent cyclin A expression prevents k-MT stabilization even in cells with aligned chromosomes. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: By contrast, k-MTs are prematurely stabilized in cyclin-A-deficient cells. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Consequently, cells lacking cyclin A display higher rates of chromosome mis-segregation. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Thus, the stability of k-MT attachments increases decisively in a coordinated fashion among all chromosomes as cells transit from prometaphase to metaphase. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: Cyclin A creates a cellular environment that promotes microtubule detachment from kinetochores in prometaphase to ensure efficient error correction and faithful chromosome segregation. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: In semisyngeneic heterotopic bone marrow transplants the donor or recipient origin of cells of osteogenic and hematopoietic tissues was identified by chromosome markers (T6) and by reverse transplantation into the initial donor line. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: In syngeneic and semisyngeneic grafts of bone marrow under the renal capsule bone and bone marrow are formed. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: In allogeneic grafts only bone is formed; this bone is subsequently resorbed. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: In 14-month semisyngeneic transplants the bone marrow consists of recipient cells. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: This is true for both the proliferating pool and the stem cells of hematopoietic tissue. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: At the same time, osteogenic precursor cells and bone tissue in these transplants are of donor origin. Relevant:
Query: All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. Document: A discussion is presented of the interrelationship between determinated osteogenic precursor cells (preosteoblasts) and hematopoietic stem cells (or their descendants) in which osteogenesis is inducible. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are now one of the most frequently used classes of antihypertensive drugs. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Beyond their utility in the management of hypertension, their use has been extended to the long-term management of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), as well as diabetic and nondiabetic nephropathies. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Although ACE inhibitor therapy usually improves renal blood flow (RBF) and sodium excretion rates in CHF and reduces the rate of progressive renal injury in chronic renal disease, its use can also be associated with a syndrome of “functional renal insufficiency” and/or hyperkalemia. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: This form of acute renal failure (ARF) most commonly develops shortly after initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy but can be observed after months or years of therapy, even in the absence of prior ill effects. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: ARF is most likely to occur when renal perfusion pressure cannot be sustained because of substantial decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) or when glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is highly angiotensin II (Ang II) dependent. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Conditions that predict an adverse hemodynamic effect of ACE inhibitors in patients with CHF are preexisting hypotension and low cardiac filling pressures. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: The GFR is especially dependent on Ang II during extracellular fluid (ECF) volume depletion, high-grade bilateral renal artery stenosis, or stenosis of a dominant or single kidney, as in a renal transplant recipient. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms and the common risk factors for ACE inhibitor–induced functional ARF is critical, because preventive strategies for ARF exist, and if effectively used, they may permit use of these compounds in a less restricted fashion. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Under normal physiological conditions, renal autoregulation adjusts renal vascular resistance, so that RBF and GFR remain constant over a wide range of MAPs.1 The intrinsic renal autoregulation mechanism is adjusted by Ang II and the sympathetic nervous system. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: When renal perfusion pressure falls (as in … Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine the safety of using aliskiren combined with agents used to block the renin-angiotensin system. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: DESIGN Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: DATA SOURCES Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Library, and two trial registries, published up to 7 May 2011. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: STUDY SELECTION Published and unpublished randomised controlled trials that compared combined treatment using aliskiren and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers with monotherapy using these agents for at least four weeks and that provided numerical data on the adverse event outcomes of hyperkalaemia and acute kidney injury. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: A random effects model was used to calculate pooled risk ratios and 95% confidence intervals for these outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: RESULTS 10 randomised controlled studies (4814 participants) were included in the analysis. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Combination therapy with aliskiren and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers significantly increased the risk of hyperkalaemia compared with monotherapy using angiotensin converting enzymes or angiotensin receptor blockers (relative risk 1.58, 95% confidence interval 1.24 to 2.02) or aliskiren alone (1.67, 1.01 to 2.79). Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: The risk of acute kidney injury did not differ significantly between the combined therapy and monotherapy groups (1.14, 0.68 to 1.89). Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: CONCLUSION Use of aliskerin in combination with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers is associated with an increased risk for hyperkalaemia. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: The combined use of these agents warrants careful monitoring of serum potassium levels. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: BACKGROUND Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are known to reduce proteinuria. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Their combination might be more effective than either treatment alone, but long-term data for comparative changes in renal function are not available. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: We investigated the renal effects of ramipril (an ACE inhibitor), telmisartan (an ARB), and their combination in patients aged 55 years or older with established atherosclerotic vascular disease or with diabetes with end-organ damage. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: METHODS The trial ran from 2001 to 2007. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: After a 3-week run-in period, 25 620 participants were randomly assigned to ramipril 10 mg a day (n=8576), telmisartan 80 mg a day (n=8542), or to a combination of both drugs (n=8502; median follow-up was 56 months), and renal function and proteinuria were measured. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: The primary renal outcome was a composite of dialysis, doubling of serum creatinine, and death. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Analysis was by intention to treat. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00153101. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: FINDINGS 784 patients permanently discontinued randomised therapy during the trial because of hypotensive symptoms (406 on combination therapy, 149 on ramipril, and 229 on telmisartan). Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: The number of events for the composite primary outcome was similar for telmisartan (n=1147 [13.4%]) and ramipril (1150 [13.5%]; hazard ratio [HR] 1.00, 95% CI 0.92-1.09), but was increased with combination therapy (1233 [14.5%]; HR 1.09, 1.01-1.18, p=0.037). Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: The secondary renal outcome, dialysis or doubling of serum creatinine, was similar with telmisartan (189 [2.21%]) and ramipril (174 [2.03%]; HR 1.09, 0.89-1.34) and more frequent with combination therapy (212 [2.49%]: HR 1.24, 1.01-1.51, p=0.038). Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) declined least with ramipril compared with telmisartan (-2.82 [SD 17.2] mL/min/1.73 m(2)vs -4.12 [17.4], p<0.0001) or combination therapy (-6.11 [17.9], p<0.0001). Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: The increase in urinary albumin excretion was less with telmisartan (p=0.004) or with combination therapy (p=0.001) than with ramipril. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: INTERPRETATION In people at high vascular risk, telmisartan's effects on major renal outcomes are similar to ramipril. Relevant:
Query: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. Document: Although combination therapy reduces proteinuria to a greater extent than monotherapy, overall it worsens major renal outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: CONTEXT Bioterrorist attacks involving letters and mail-handling systems in Washington, DC, resulted in Bacillus anthracis (anthrax) spore contamination in the Hart Senate Office Building and other facilities in the US Capitol's vicinity. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: OBJECTIVE To provide information about the nature and extent of indoor secondary aerosolization of B anthracis spores. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: DESIGN Stationary and personal air samples, surface dust, and swab samples were collected under semiquiescent (minimal activities) and then simulated active office conditions to estimate secondary aerosolization of B anthracis spores. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Nominal size characteristics, airborne concentrations, and surface contamination of B anthracis particles (colony-forming units) were evaluated. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: RESULTS Viable B anthracis spores reaerosolized under semiquiescent conditions, with a marked increase in reaerosolization during simulated active office conditions. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Increases were observed for B anthracis collected on open sheep blood agar plates (P<.001) and personal air monitors (P =.01) during active office conditions. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: More than 80% of the B anthracis particles collected on stationary monitors were within an alveolar respirable size range of 0.95 to 3.5 micro m.   CONCLUSIONS Bacillus anthracis spores used in a recent terrorist incident reaerosolized under common office activities. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: These findings have important implications for appropriate respiratory protection, remediation, and reoccupancy of contaminated office environments. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: According to the Web site of the Association for Automatic Identification and Data Capture Technologies [http://www.aimglobal.org/technologies/rfid], "radio frequency identification (RFID) technology is an automatic way to collect product, place, and time or transaction data quickly and easily without human intervention or error. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: " Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: With the ability to track everything from crates of disposable razors to individual peanut-butter jars on the store shelves, RFID technology offers the potential of "real-time supply chain visibility. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: " Promoters of RFID technology feel [C. Humer, 2003] that "RF tags are to this decade what the Internet was to the 1990's-a promise of radical change in the way business is done. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: " Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: However, before the full potential of RFID technology can be realized, several hurdles need to be overcome: reliability, cost, lack of standards, and security. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: As these hurdles gradually diminish, Wal-Mart publicly embraces the technology. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Publisher Summary The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is now recognized as a model system representing a simple eukaryote whose genome can be easily manipulated. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Yeast has only a slightly greater genetic complexity than bacteria and shares many of the technical advantages that permitted rapid progress in the molecular genetics of prokaryotes and their viruses. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Some of the properties that make yeast particularly suitable for biological studies include rapid growth, dispersed cells, the ease of replica plating and mutant isolation, a well-defined genetic system, and most important, a highly versatile DNA transformation system. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Being nonpathogenic, yeast can be handled with little precautions. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Large quantities of normal baker's yeast are commercially available and can provide a cheap source for biochemical studies. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: The development of DNA transformation has made yeast particularly accessible to gene cloning and genetic engineering techniques. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Structural genes corresponding to virtually any genetic trait can be identified by complementation from plasmid libraries. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Plasmids can be introduced into yeast cells either as replicating molecules or by integration into the genome. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: In contrast to most other organisms, integrative recombination of transforming DNA in yeast proceeds exclusively via homologous recombination. Relevant:
Query: Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. Document: Cloned yeast sequences, accompanied by foreign sequences on plasmids, can therefore be directed at will to specific locations in the genome. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Antibiotics can have significant and long-lasting effects on the gastrointestinal tract microbiota, reducing colonization resistance against pathogens including Clostridium difficile. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Here we show that antibiotic treatment induces substantial changes in the gut microbial community and in the metabolome of mice susceptible to C. difficile infection. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Levels of secondary bile acids, glucose, free fatty acids and dipeptides decrease, whereas those of primary bile acids and sugar alcohols increase, reflecting the modified metabolic activity of the altered gut microbiome. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: In vitro and ex vivo analyses demonstrate that C. difficile can exploit specific metabolites that become more abundant in the mouse gut after antibiotics, including the primary bile acid taurocholate for germination, and carbon sources such as mannitol, fructose, sorbitol, raffinose and stachyose for growth. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Our results indicate that antibiotic-mediated alteration of the gut microbiome converts the global metabolic profile to one that favours C. difficile germination and growth. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: The gastrointestinal tracts of mammals are colonized by hundreds of microbial species that contribute to health, including colonization resistance against intestinal pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Many antibiotics destroy intestinal microbial communities and increase susceptibility to intestinal pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Among these, Clostridium difficile, a major cause of antibiotic-induced diarrhoea, greatly increases morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Which intestinal bacteria provide resistance to C. difficile infection and their in vivo inhibitory mechanisms remain unclear. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Here we correlate loss of specific bacterial taxa with development of infection, by treating mice with different antibiotics that result in distinct microbiota changes and lead to varied susceptibility to C. difficile. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Mathematical modelling augmented by analyses of the microbiota of hospitalized patients identifies resistance-associated bacteria common to mice and humans. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Using these platforms, we determine that Clostridium scindens, a bile acid 7α-dehydroxylating intestinal bacterium, is associated with resistance to C. difficile infection and, upon administration, enhances resistance to infection in a secondary bile acid dependent fashion. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Using a workflow involving mouse models, clinical studies, metagenomic analyses, and mathematical modelling, we identify a probiotic candidate that corrects a clinically relevant microbiome deficiency. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: These findings have implications for the rational design of targeted antimicrobials as well as microbiome-based diagnostics and therapeutics for individuals at risk of C. difficile infection. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Several lines of evidence suggest a role for the gut microbiome in type 1 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Treating diabetes-prone rodents with probiotics or antibiotics prevents the development of the disorder. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Diabetes-prone rodents also have a distinctly different gut microbiome compared with healthy rodents. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Recent studies in children with a high genetic risk for type 1 diabetes demonstrate significant differences in the gut microbiome between children who develop autoimmunity for the disease and those who remain healthy. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: However, the differences in microbiome composition between autoimmune and healthy children are not consistent across all studies because of the strong environmental influences on microbiome composition, particularly diet and geography. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Controlling confounding factors of microbiome composition uncovers bacterial associations with disease. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: For example, in a human cohort from a single Finnish city where geography is confined, a strong association between one dominant bacterial species, Bacteroides dorei, and type 1 diabetes was discovered (Davis-Richardson et al. Front Microbiol 2014;5:678). Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: Beyond this, recent DNA methylation analyses suggest that a thorough epigenetic analysis of the gut microbiome may be warranted. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: These studies suggest a testable model whereby a diet high in fat and gluten and low in resistant starch may be the primary driver of gut dysbiosis. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: This dysbiosis may cause a lack of butyrate production by gut bacteria, which, in turn, leads to the development of a permeable gut followed by autoimmunity. Relevant:
Query: Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile Document: The bacterial community responsible for these changes in butyrate production may vary around the world, but bacteria of the genus Bacteroides are thought to play a key role. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: BACKGROUND Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is the strongest risk factor for developing tuberculosis and has fuelled its resurgence, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: In 2010, there were an estimated 1.1 million incident cases of tuberculosis among the 34 million people living with HIV worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Antiretroviral therapy has substantial potential to prevent HIV-associated tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: We conducted a systematic review of studies that analysed the impact of antiretroviral therapy on the incidence of tuberculosis in adults with HIV infection. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS PubMed, Embase, African Index Medicus, LILACS, and clinical trial registries were systematically searched. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Randomised controlled trials, prospective cohort studies, and retrospective cohort studies were included if they compared tuberculosis incidence by antiretroviral therapy status in HIV-infected adults for a median of over 6 mo in developing countries. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: For the meta-analyses there were four categories based on CD4 counts at antiretroviral therapy initiation: (1) less than 200 cells/µl, (2) 200 to 350 cells/µl, (3) greater than 350 cells/µl, and (4) any CD4 count. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Eleven studies met the inclusion criteria. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis in all baseline CD4 count categories: (1) less than 200 cells/µl (hazard ratio [HR] 0.16, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.07 to 0.36), (2) 200 to 350 cells/µl (HR 0.34, 95% CI 0.19 to 0.60), (3) greater than 350 cells/µl (HR 0.43, 95% CI 0.30 to 0.63), and (4) any CD4 count (HR 0.35, 95% CI 0.28 to 0.44). Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: There was no evidence of hazard ratio modification with respect to baseline CD4 count category (p = 0.20). Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: CONCLUSIONS Antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis across all CD4 count strata. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Earlier initiation of antiretroviral therapy may be a key component of global and national strategies to control the HIV-associated tuberculosis syndemic. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: REVIEW REGISTRATION International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews CRD42011001209 Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: BACKGROUND We previously reported that integrating antiretroviral therapy (ART) with tuberculosis treatment reduces mortality. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: However, the timing for the initiation of ART during tuberculosis treatment remains unresolved. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: METHODS We conducted a three-group, open-label, randomized, controlled trial in South Africa involving 642 ambulatory patients, all with tuberculosis (confirmed by a positive sputum smear for acid-fast bacilli), human immunodeficiency virus infection, and a CD4+ T-cell count of less than 500 per cubic millimeter. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Findings in the earlier-ART group (ART initiated within 4 weeks after the start of tuberculosis treatment, 214 patients) and later-ART group (ART initiated during the first 4 weeks of the continuation phase of tuberculosis treatment, 215 patients) are presented here. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: RESULTS At baseline, the median CD4+ T-cell count was 150 per cubic millimeter, and the median viral load was 161,000 copies per milliliter, with no significant differences between the two groups. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: The incidence rate of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or death was 6.9 cases per 100 person-years in the earlier-ART group (18 cases) as compared with 7.8 per 100 person-years in the later-ART group (19 cases) (incidence-rate ratio, 0.89; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.44 to 1.79; P=0.73). Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: However, among patients with CD4+ T-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter, the incidence rates of AIDS or death were 8.5 and 26.3 cases per 100 person-years, respectively (incidence-rate ratio, 0.32; 95% CI, 0.07 to 1.13; P=0.06). Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: The incidence rates of the immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) were 20.1 and 7.7 cases per 100 person-years, respectively (incidence-rate ratio, 2.62; 95% CI, 1.48 to 4.82; P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Adverse events requiring a switching of antiretroviral drugs occurred in 10 patients in the earlier-ART group and 1 patient in the later-ART group (P=0.006). Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: CONCLUSIONS Early initiation of ART in patients with CD4+ T-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter increased AIDS-free survival. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Deferral of the initiation of ART to the first 4 weeks of the continuation phase of tuberculosis therapy in those with higher CD4+ T-cell counts reduced the risks of IRIS and other adverse events related to ART without increasing the risk of AIDS or death. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: (Funded by the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and others; SAPIT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00398996.). Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: BACKGROUND Many mathematical models have investigated the impact of expanding access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) on new HIV infections. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Comparing results and conclusions across models is challenging because models have addressed slightly different questions and have reported different outcome metrics. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: This study compares the predictions of several mathematical models simulating the same ART intervention programmes to determine the extent to which models agree about the epidemiological impact of expanded ART. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Twelve independent mathematical models evaluated a set of standardised ART intervention scenarios in South Africa and reported a common set of outputs. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Intervention scenarios systematically varied the CD4 count threshold for treatment eligibility, access to treatment, and programme retention. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: For a scenario in which 80% of HIV-infected individuals start treatment on average 1 y after their CD4 count drops below 350 cells/µl and 85% remain on treatment after 3 y, the models projected that HIV incidence would be 35% to 54% lower 8 y after the introduction of ART, compared to a counterfactual scenario in which there is no ART. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: More variation existed in the estimated long-term (38 y) reductions in incidence. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: The impact of optimistic interventions including immediate ART initiation varied widely across models, maintaining substantial uncertainty about the theoretical prospect for elimination of HIV from the population using ART alone over the next four decades. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: The number of person-years of ART per infection averted over 8 y ranged between 5.8 and 18.7. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Considering the actual scale-up of ART in South Africa, seven models estimated that current HIV incidence is 17% to 32% lower than it would have been in the absence of ART. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Differences between model assumptions about CD4 decline and HIV transmissibility over the course of infection explained only a modest amount of the variation in model results. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: CONCLUSIONS Mathematical models evaluating the impact of ART vary substantially in structure, complexity, and parameter choices, but all suggest that ART, at high levels of access and with high adherence, has the potential to substantially reduce new HIV infections. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: There was broad agreement regarding the short-term epidemiologic impact of ambitious treatment scale-up, but more variation in longer term projections and in the efficiency with which treatment can reduce new infections. Relevant:
Query: Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. Document: Differences between model predictions could not be explained by differences in model structure or parameterization that were hypothesized to affect intervention impact. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: CLIP-170 is a "cytoplasmic linker protein" implicated in endosome-microtubule interactions and in control of microtubule dynamics. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: CLIP-170 localizes dynamically to growing microtubule plus ends, colocalizing with the dynein activator dynactin and the APC-binding protein EB1. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: This shared "plus-end tracking" behavior suggests that CLIP-170 might interact with dynactin and/or EB1. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: We have used site-specific mutagenesis of CLIP-170 and a transfection/colocalization assay to address this question in mammalian tissue culture cells. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Our results indicate that CLIP-170 interacts, directly or indirectly, with both dynactin and EB1. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: We find that the CLIP-170/dynactin interaction is mediated by the second metal binding motif of the CLIP-170 tail. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: In contrast, the CLIP-170/EB1 interaction requires neither metal binding motif. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: In addition, our experiments suggest that the CLIP-170/dynactin interaction occurs via the shoulder/sidearm subcomplex of dynactin and can occur in the cytosol (i.e., it does not require microtubule binding). Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: These results have implications for the targeting of both dynactin and EB1 to microtubule plus ends. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Our data suggest that the CLIP-170/dynactin interaction can target dynactin complex to microtubule plus ends, although dynactin likely also targets MT plus ends directly via the microtubule binding motif of the p150(Glued) subunit. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: We find that CLIP-170 mutants alter p150(Glued) localization without affecting EB1, indicating that EB1 can target microtubule plus ends independently of dynactin. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Plus-end tracking proteins, such as EB1 and the dynein/dynactin complex, regulate microtubule dynamics. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: These proteins are thought to stabilize microtubules by forming a plus-end complex at microtubule growing ends with ill-defined mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Here we report the crystal structure of two plus-end complex components, the carboxy-terminal dimerization domain of EB1 and the microtubule binding (CAP-Gly) domain of the dynactin subunit p150Glued. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Each molecule of the EB1 dimer contains two helices forming a conserved four-helix bundle, while also providing p150Glued binding sites in its flexible tail region. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Combining crystallography, NMR, and mutational analyses, our studies reveal the critical interacting elements of both EB1 and p150Glued, whose mutation alters microtubule polymerization activity. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Moreover, removal of the key flexible tail from EB1 activates microtubule assembly by EB1 alone, suggesting that the flexible tail negatively regulates EB1 activity. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: We, therefore, propose that EB1 possesses an auto-inhibited conformation, which is relieved by p150Glued as an allosteric activator. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: The recent discovery of a ubiquitous translocation pathway, specifically required for proteins with a twin-arginine motif in their signal peptide, has focused interest on its membrane-bound components, one of which is known as TatC. Unlike most organisms of which the genome has been sequenced completely, the Gram-positive eubacterium Bacillus subtilis contains two tatC-like genes denoted tatCd and tatCy. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: The corresponding TatCd and TatCy proteins have the potential to be involved in the translocation of 27 proteins with putative twin-arginine signal peptides of which approximately 6-14 are likely to be secreted into the growth medium. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Using a proteomic approach, we show that PhoD of B. subtilis, a phosphodiesterase belonging to a novel protein family of which all known members are synthesized with typical twin-arginine signal peptides, is secreted via the twin-arginine translocation pathway. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Strikingly, TatCd is of major importance for the secretion of PhoD, whereas TatCy is not required for this process. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Thus, TatC appears to be a specificity determinant for protein secretion via the Tat pathway. Relevant:
Query: Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. Document: Based on our observations, we hypothesize that the TatC-determined pathway specificity is based on specific interactions between TatC-like proteins and other pathway components, such as TatA, of which three paralogues are present in B. subtilis. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Responses of cerebral blood vessels to nitric oxide (NO) are mediated by soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC)-dependent and potentially by sGC-independent mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: One sGC-independent mechanism by which NO may produce vasodilatation is inhibition of formation of a vasoconstrictor metabolite produced through the cytochrome P450 pathway. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: In these experiments, we examined the hypothesis that dilatation of cerebral microvessels in response to NO is dependent on activation of sGC. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Diameters of cerebral arterioles (baseline diameter=94+/-5 micrometers, mean+/-S.E.) were measured using a closed cranial window in anesthetized rabbits. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Under control conditions, YC-1 [3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole], an NO-independent activator of sGC, produced vasodilation that was blocked by ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3,-a]quinoxalin-1-one)(10 microM), an inhibitor of sGC. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: These findings indicate that sGC is functionally important in cerebral arterioles. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: In addition, acetylcholine (which stimulates endogenous production of NO by endothelium) produced dilatation of cerebral arterioles that was inhibited by ODQ. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: For example, 1 microM acetylcholine dilated cerebral arterioles by 34+/-7 and 5+/-1% in the absence and presence of ODQ (10 microM), respectively. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Increases in arteriolar diameter in response to sodium nitroprusside (1 microM, an NO donor) were inhibited by approximately 80% by ODQ, but were not affected by 17-ODYA (10 microM) or clotrimazole (10 microM), inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 pathway. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Thus, dilatation of the cerebral microcirculation in response to exogenously applied and endogenously produced NO is dependent, in large part, on activation of sGC. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: BACKGROUND We have developed techniques to implant angiogenic patches onto the epicardium over regions of infarcted cardiac tissue to stimulate revascularization of the damaged tissue. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: These experiments used a scaffold-based 3D human dermal fibroblast culture (3DFC) as an epicardial patch. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: The 3DFC contains viable cells that secrete angiogenic growth factors and has previously been shown to stimulate angiogenic activity. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: The hypothesis tested was that a viable 3DFC cardiac patch would stimulate an angiogenic response within an area of infarcted cardiac tissue. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS A coronary occlusion of a branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery was performed by thermal ligation in severe combined immunodeficient mice. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: 3DFCs with or without viable cells were sized to the damaged area, implanted in replicate mice onto the epicardium at the site of tissue injury, and compared with animals that received infarct surgery but no implant. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Fourteen and 30 days after surgery, hearts were exposed and photographed, and tissue samples were prepared for histology and cytochemistry. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Fourteen and 30 days after surgery, the damaged myocardium receiving viable 3DFC exhibited a significantly greater angiogenic response (including arterioles, venules, and capillaries) than nonviable and untreated control groups. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this animal model, viable 3DFC stimulates angiogenesis within a region of cardiac infarction and can augment a repair response in damaged tissue. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Therefore, a potential use for 3DFC is the repair of myocardial tissue damaged by infarction. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: BACKGROUND Endothelium-dependent modulation of coronary tone is impaired in the collateral-dependent coronary microcirculation. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: We used a porcine model of chronic coronary occlusion and collateral development to evaluate the hypothesis that exercise training enhances endothelium-mediated relaxation and increases endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ecNOS) mRNA levels of collateral-dependent microvasculature. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS Adult female miniature swine were subjected to chronic, progressive ameroid occlusion of the proximal left circumflex coronary artery (LCx); after 2 months, animals were randomly exposed to 16-week exercise-training (EX group; treadmill running) or sedentary (SED group; cage confinement) protocols. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: After completion of EX or SED programs, coronary arterioles ( approximately 100 microm in diameter) were isolated from collateral-dependent LCx (distal to occlusion) and nonoccluded left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) regions of each heart. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Arterioles were studied by in vitro videomicroscopy or frozen for ecNOS mRNA analysis (RT-PCR techniques). Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Relaxation to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator bradykinin was decreased (P<0.05) in arterioles isolated from collateral-dependent LCx versus nonoccluded LAD regions of SED animals. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Bradykinin-mediated relaxation, however, was not different in LCx versus LAD arterioles isolated from EX animals. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Nitroprusside-induced relaxation was unaffected by either chronic occlusion or exercise. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: Importantly, ecNOS mRNA expression was significantly decreased in arterioles isolated from LCx versus LAD regions of SED animals. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: After training, ecNOS mRNA expression was not different between LAD and LCx arterioles. Relevant:
Query: Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. Document: CONCLUSIONS These data indicate that exercise training enhances bradykinin-mediated relaxation of collateral-dependent LCx arterioles isolated after chronic coronary occlusion, most likely because of effects on ecNOS mRNA expression and increased production of NO. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: PLoS Biology publishes today a research article by Gunther Eysenbach that is not about biology. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: It is about citations. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: It provides robust evidence that open-access articles (OA articles) are more immediately recognized and cited than non-OA articles. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As such, it adds objective support to the belief we have always held that open-access publication speeds up scientific dialog between researchers and, consequently, should be extended to the whole scientific literature as quickly as possible. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: It is therefore fitting that we publish such a paper. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: We have long argued that papers freely available in a journal will be more often read and cited than those behind a subscription barrier. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: However, solid evidence to support or refute such a claim has been surprisingly hard to find. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Since most open-access journals are new, comparisons of the effects of open access with established subscription-based journals are easily confounded by age and reputation. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In the current study, Eysenbach compared citations compiled by Thomson Scientific (formerly Thomson ISI) to individual articles published between June 2004 and December 2004 in the same journal—namely, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), which announced its open-access option for authors on June 8 of that year, with an associated publication charge of US$1,000. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Non-OA articles in PNAS are subject to a six-month “toll-access” delay before the article becomes publicly available. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The results of this natural experiment are clear: in the 4 to 16 months following publication, OA articles gained a significant citation advantage over non-OA articles during the same period. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: They are twice as likely to be cited 4 to 10 months after publication and almost three times as likely between 10 and 16 months. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Given that PNAS delays open access for only six months, the disparity between OA and non-OA articles in journals where the delay is longer or where articles remain “toll-access” is likely to be even greater. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Eysenbach also looked at the impact of self-archiving non-OA articles. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: One route to open access, it is argued, is for authors to archive their published articles on their own Web sites or in institutional repositories, although this does not include an explicit business model to cover the cost of peer-review and publishing. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The analysis revealed that self-archived articles are also cited less often than OA articles from the same journal. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Yes, you're right; we do have a strong and vested interest in publishing results that so obviously endorse our existence. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Moreover, the author of the article is also an editor of an open-access journal. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: But sometimes a potential conflict of interest can actually help to ensure rigor. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In this case, we have an acute interest in ensuring that the article meets the same, if not higher, standards as any other research article we publish. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Not only must the conclusions provide a significant advance for the field, but the study must be technically sound, with appropriate evidence to support those conclusions. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As with all our research articles, we consulted throughout the evaluation process with an academic editor with appropriate expertise—in this case, Carol Tenopir, professor of information sciences at the University of Tennessee (Knoxville, Tennessee, United States). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The article was reviewed by two experts in bibliometric analyses and information science, and an experienced research biologist with expertise in statistics. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: They all enthusiastically supported publication, although one understandably questioned the suitability of PLoS Biology as the publication venue. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: We have no intention of making PLoS Biology a regular home for bibliometric studies (even when about open access). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: What makes this study worth publishing in PLoS Biology is not only the relative strength of evidence supporting the claim but also the extent to which many (especially other publishers) have anticipated such an analysis. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As far as we are aware, no other study has compared OA and non-OA articles from the same journal and controlled for so many potentially confounding factors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Eysenbach's multivariate analysis took into account the number of days since publication, number of authors, article type, country of the corresponding author, funding type, subject area, submission track ( PNAS has three different ways that authors can submit a paper), and the previous citation record of the first and last authors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: He even administered a supplementary questionnaire to assess whether authors choosing the OA option in PNAS chose to do so for only their most important research (they didn't). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As Ian Rowlands from the Centre for Publishing at University College London—and one of the reviewers who agreed to be identified in this article—said at the start of his review:          “Many (most) of the papers and presentations I have read/seen on this topic have completely failed to address the kinds of confounding issues that are so convincingly tackled here. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: For that reason alone, this paper deserves to be published and alerted to the widest possible audience. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: ”          In addition to providing evidence for the immediate advantage of open access, Eysenbach's analysis also highlights several potential challenges to its long-term future. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Although a limited dataset, the citation history of the first and last authors differed between those who chose the open-access option and those who did not. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In the group that chose open access, last authors tended to have a “stronger” previous citation record, whereas this situation was reversed among the group that declined the open-access option—here, it was the first authors who tended to be stronger. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: This may reflect varying attitudes of authors at different stages of their career, a stronger influence from the leader of a particular group, or an age- or career-related difference in the ability to pay the publication charge (e.g., [ 1]). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Indeed, access to appropriate funds may also be a reason why a lower proportion of authors from European countries tended to choose the open-access option. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In many of these countries, funds for page charges—and, by extension, open-access publication fees—are often not included within research grants. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: PNAS was one of the first journals to offer an open-access option to its authors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: However, such hybrid journals are increasing: Blackwell, Springer, and Oxford University Press now provide this option as well. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: This means that similar experiments can be replicated. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Moreover, although the evidence from the current analysis argues most strongly for a time advantage in citation for OA articles, a study over longer periods will reveal whether this translates into a sustained increase in the number of citations. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In the meantime, open-access advocates should be emboldened by tangible evidence for what has seemed obvious all along. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Although essentially unknown as a therapeutic concept as recently as a decade ago, it is difficult now to open a cardiology journal, attend a cardiology meeting, or scan a newspaper without being caught up in the excitement generated by the thought that angiogenesis therapy may soon have a major impact on the treatment of patients with atherosclerotic lesions obstructing arteries that supply the myocardium or legs. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Potent therapeutic interventions, however, are rarely free of at least the potential for causing harmful effects. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Angiogenesis therapy is no exception. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Despite this and despite the fact that the only reasonably powered, randomized, double-blind clinical studies to date have failed to demonstrate primary end-point efficacy,1 thoughtful consideration of the serious side effects that might accompany any therapeutic benefit has been largely missing from scientific communications. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: For the lay media, a switch from this unbounded enthusiasm to profound skepticism occurred recently after a report of the tragic death of a young man caused by injection of large amounts of an adenoviral vector into the hepatic artery (unrelated to angiogenesis therapy).2 For the scientific community, however, there has been a general lack of in-depth discussion of the potential dangers inherent in angiogenesis interventions. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Such a discussion is appropriate not only because of the event cited above but also because considerable mechanistic data are available that actually permit us to identify specific side effects that we might anticipate as potential complications of angiogenesis therapy. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The following therefore is a discussion of potential complications based predominantly on our knowledge of the underlying biological activities of 2 of the most potent angiogenic cytokines, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Angiogenic agents are thought to have the potential to induce neovascularization in many different tissues. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: This becomes important in that under clinical circumstances it … Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: CONTEXT Anxiety about bias, lack of accountability, and poor quality of peer review has led to questions about the imbalance in anonymity between reviewers and authors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effect on the quality of peer review of blinding reviewers to the authors' identities and requiring reviewers to sign their reports. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: DESIGN Randomized controlled trial. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: SETTING A general medical journal. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: PARTICIPANTS A total of 420 reviewers from the journal's database. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: INTERVENTION We modified a paper accepted for publication introducing 8 areas of weakness. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Reviewers were randomly allocated to 5 groups. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Groups 1 and 2 received manuscripts from which the authors' names and affiliations had been removed, while groups 3 and 4 were aware of the authors' identities. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Groups 1 and 3 were asked to sign their reports, while groups 2 and 4 were asked to return their reports unsigned. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The fifth group was sent the paper in the usual manner of the journal, with authors' identities revealed and a request to comment anonymously. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Group 5 differed from group 4 only in that its members were unaware that they were taking part in a study. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE The number of weaknesses in the paper that were commented on by the reviewers. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: RESULTS Reports were received from 221 reviewers (53%). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The mean number of weaknesses commented on was 2 (1.7, 2.1, 1.8, and 1.9 for groups 1, 2, 3, and 4 and 5 combined, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: There were no statistically significant differences between groups in their performance. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Reviewers who were blinded to authors' dentities were less likely to recommend rejection than those who were aware of the authors' identities (odds ratio, 0.5; 95% confidence interval, 0.3-1.0). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: CONCLUSIONS Neither blinding reviewers to the authors and origin of the paper nor requiring them to sign their reports had any effect on rate of detection of errors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Such measures are unlikely to improve the quality of peer review reports. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: PLoS Biology publishes today a research article by Gunther Eysenbach that is not about biology. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: It is about citations. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: It provides robust evidence that open-access articles (OA articles) are more immediately recognized and cited than non-OA articles. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As such, it adds objective support to the belief we have always held that open-access publication speeds up scientific dialog between researchers and, consequently, should be extended to the whole scientific literature as quickly as possible. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: It is therefore fitting that we publish such a paper. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: We have long argued that papers freely available in a journal will be more often read and cited than those behind a subscription barrier. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: However, solid evidence to support or refute such a claim has been surprisingly hard to find. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Since most open-access journals are new, comparisons of the effects of open access with established subscription-based journals are easily confounded by age and reputation. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In the current study, Eysenbach compared citations compiled by Thomson Scientific (formerly Thomson ISI) to individual articles published between June 2004 and December 2004 in the same journal—namely, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), which announced its open-access option for authors on June 8 of that year, with an associated publication charge of US$1,000. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Non-OA articles in PNAS are subject to a six-month “toll-access” delay before the article becomes publicly available. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The results of this natural experiment are clear: in the 4 to 16 months following publication, OA articles gained a significant citation advantage over non-OA articles during the same period. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: They are twice as likely to be cited 4 to 10 months after publication and almost three times as likely between 10 and 16 months. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Given that PNAS delays open access for only six months, the disparity between OA and non-OA articles in journals where the delay is longer or where articles remain “toll-access” is likely to be even greater. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Eysenbach also looked at the impact of self-archiving non-OA articles. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: One route to open access, it is argued, is for authors to archive their published articles on their own Web sites or in institutional repositories, although this does not include an explicit business model to cover the cost of peer-review and publishing. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The analysis revealed that self-archived articles are also cited less often than OA articles from the same journal. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Yes, you're right; we do have a strong and vested interest in publishing results that so obviously endorse our existence. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Moreover, the author of the article is also an editor of an open-access journal. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: But sometimes a potential conflict of interest can actually help to ensure rigor. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In this case, we have an acute interest in ensuring that the article meets the same, if not higher, standards as any other research article we publish. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Not only must the conclusions provide a significant advance for the field, but the study must be technically sound, with appropriate evidence to support those conclusions. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As with all our research articles, we consulted throughout the evaluation process with an academic editor with appropriate expertise—in this case, Carol Tenopir, professor of information sciences at the University of Tennessee (Knoxville, Tennessee, United States). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The article was reviewed by two experts in bibliometric analyses and information science, and an experienced research biologist with expertise in statistics. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: They all enthusiastically supported publication, although one understandably questioned the suitability of PLoS Biology as the publication venue. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: We have no intention of making PLoS Biology a regular home for bibliometric studies (even when about open access). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: What makes this study worth publishing in PLoS Biology is not only the relative strength of evidence supporting the claim but also the extent to which many (especially other publishers) have anticipated such an analysis. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As far as we are aware, no other study has compared OA and non-OA articles from the same journal and controlled for so many potentially confounding factors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Eysenbach's multivariate analysis took into account the number of days since publication, number of authors, article type, country of the corresponding author, funding type, subject area, submission track ( PNAS has three different ways that authors can submit a paper), and the previous citation record of the first and last authors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: He even administered a supplementary questionnaire to assess whether authors choosing the OA option in PNAS chose to do so for only their most important research (they didn't). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: As Ian Rowlands from the Centre for Publishing at University College London—and one of the reviewers who agreed to be identified in this article—said at the start of his review:          “Many (most) of the papers and presentations I have read/seen on this topic have completely failed to address the kinds of confounding issues that are so convincingly tackled here. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: For that reason alone, this paper deserves to be published and alerted to the widest possible audience. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: ”          In addition to providing evidence for the immediate advantage of open access, Eysenbach's analysis also highlights several potential challenges to its long-term future. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Although a limited dataset, the citation history of the first and last authors differed between those who chose the open-access option and those who did not. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In the group that chose open access, last authors tended to have a “stronger” previous citation record, whereas this situation was reversed among the group that declined the open-access option—here, it was the first authors who tended to be stronger. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: This may reflect varying attitudes of authors at different stages of their career, a stronger influence from the leader of a particular group, or an age- or career-related difference in the ability to pay the publication charge (e.g., [ 1]). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Indeed, access to appropriate funds may also be a reason why a lower proportion of authors from European countries tended to choose the open-access option. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In many of these countries, funds for page charges—and, by extension, open-access publication fees—are often not included within research grants. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: PNAS was one of the first journals to offer an open-access option to its authors. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: However, such hybrid journals are increasing: Blackwell, Springer, and Oxford University Press now provide this option as well. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: This means that similar experiments can be replicated. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Moreover, although the evidence from the current analysis argues most strongly for a time advantage in citation for OA articles, a study over longer periods will reveal whether this translates into a sustained increase in the number of citations. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: In the meantime, open-access advocates should be emboldened by tangible evidence for what has seemed obvious all along. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Although essentially unknown as a therapeutic concept as recently as a decade ago, it is difficult now to open a cardiology journal, attend a cardiology meeting, or scan a newspaper without being caught up in the excitement generated by the thought that angiogenesis therapy may soon have a major impact on the treatment of patients with atherosclerotic lesions obstructing arteries that supply the myocardium or legs. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Potent therapeutic interventions, however, are rarely free of at least the potential for causing harmful effects. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Angiogenesis therapy is no exception. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Despite this and despite the fact that the only reasonably powered, randomized, double-blind clinical studies to date have failed to demonstrate primary end-point efficacy,1 thoughtful consideration of the serious side effects that might accompany any therapeutic benefit has been largely missing from scientific communications. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: For the lay media, a switch from this unbounded enthusiasm to profound skepticism occurred recently after a report of the tragic death of a young man caused by injection of large amounts of an adenoviral vector into the hepatic artery (unrelated to angiogenesis therapy).2 For the scientific community, however, there has been a general lack of in-depth discussion of the potential dangers inherent in angiogenesis interventions. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Such a discussion is appropriate not only because of the event cited above but also because considerable mechanistic data are available that actually permit us to identify specific side effects that we might anticipate as potential complications of angiogenesis therapy. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: The following therefore is a discussion of potential complications based predominantly on our knowledge of the underlying biological activities of 2 of the most potent angiogenic cytokines, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Angiogenic agents are thought to have the potential to induce neovascularization in many different tissues. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: This becomes important in that under clinical circumstances it … Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: CONTEXT In 2002, an estimated 877,000 lives were lost worldwide through suicide. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Some developed nations have implemented national suicide prevention plans. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Although these plans generally propose multiple interventions, their effectiveness is rarely evaluated. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: OBJECTIVES To examine evidence for the effectiveness of specific suicide-preventive interventions and to make recommendations for future prevention programs and research. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: DATA SOURCES AND STUDY SELECTION Relevant publications were identified via electronic searches of MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, and PsychINFO databases using multiple search terms related to suicide prevention. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Studies, published between 1966 and June 2005, included those that evaluated preventative interventions in major domains; education and awareness for the general public and for professionals; screening tools for at-risk individuals; treatment of psychiatric disorders; restricting access to lethal means; and responsible media reporting of suicide. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: DATA EXTRACTION Data were extracted on primary outcomes of interest: suicidal behavior (completion, attempt, ideation), intermediary or secondary outcomes (treatment seeking, identification of at-risk individuals, antidepressant prescription/use rates, referrals), or both. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Experts from 15 countries reviewed all studies. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Included articles were those that reported on completed and attempted suicide and suicidal ideation; or, where applicable, intermediate outcomes, including help-seeking behavior, identification of at-risk individuals, entry into treatment, and antidepressant prescription rates. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: We included 3 major types of studies for which the research question was clearly defined: systematic reviews and meta-analyses (n = 10); quantitative studies, either randomized controlled trials (n = 18) or cohort studies (n = 24); and ecological, or population- based studies (n = 41). Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Heterogeneity of study populations and methodology did not permit formal meta-analysis; thus, a narrative synthesis is presented. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: DATA SYNTHESIS Education of physicians and restricting access to lethal means were found to prevent suicide. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Other methods including public education, screening programs, and media education need more testing. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: CONCLUSIONS Physician education in depression recognition and treatment and restricting access to lethal methods reduce suicide rates. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Other interventions need more evidence of efficacy. Relevant:
Query: Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. Document: Ascertaining which components of suicide prevention programs are effective in reducing rates of suicide and suicide attempt is essential in order to optimize use of limited resources. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: RATIONALE Donor mesenchymal stromal/stem cell (MSC) expansion and fibrotic differentiation is associated with development of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) in human lung allografts. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: However, the regulators of fibrotic differentiation of these resident mesenchymal cells are not well understood. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: OBJECTIVES This study examines the role of endogenous and exogenous prostaglandin (PG)E2 as a modulator of fibrotic differentiation of human lung allograft-derived MSCs. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: METHODS Effect of PGE2 on proliferation, collagen secretion, and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression was assessed in lung-resident MSCs (LR-MSCs) derived from patients with and without BOS. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: The response pathway involved was elucidated by use of specific agonists and antagonists. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS PGE2 treatment of LR-MSCs derived from normal lung allografts significantly inhibited their proliferation, collagen secretion, and α-SMA expression. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: On the basis of pharmacologic and small-interfering RNA approaches, a PGE2/E prostanoid (EP)2/adenylate cyclase pathway was implicated in these suppressive effects. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Stimulation of endogenous PGE2 secretion by IL-1β was associated with amelioration of their myofibroblast differentiation in vitro, whereas its inhibition by indomethacin augmented α-SMA expression. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: LR-MSCs from patients with BOS secreted significantly less PGE2 than non-BOS LR-MSCs. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Furthermore, BOS LR-MSCs were found to be defective in their ability to induce cyclooxygenase-2, and therefore unable to up-regulate PGE2 synthesis in response to IL-1β. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: BOS LR-MSCs also demonstrated resistance to the inhibitory actions of PGE2 in association with a reduction in the EP2/EP1 ratio. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: CONCLUSIONS These data identify the PGE2 axis as an important autocrine-paracrine brake on fibrotic differentiation of LR-MSCs, a failure of which is associated with BOS. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) can stimulate tumor progression by modulating several proneoplastic pathways, including proliferation, angiogenesis, cell migration, invasion, and apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Although steady-state tissue levels of PGE2 stem from relative rates of biosynthesis and breakdown, most reports examining PGE2 have focused solely on the cyclooxygenase-dependent formation of this bioactive lipid. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Enzymatic degradation of PGE2 involves the NAD+-dependent 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH). Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: The present study examined a range of normal tissues in the human and mouse and found high levels of 15-PGDH in the large intestine. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: By contrast, the expression of 15-PGDH is decreased in several colorectal carcinoma cell lines and in other human malignancies such as breast and lung carcinomas. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Consistent with these findings, we observe diminished 15-Pgdh expression in ApcMin+/- mouse adenomas. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Enzymatic activity of 15-PGDH correlates with expression levels and the genetic disruption of 15-Pgdh completely blocks production of the urinary PGE2 metabolite. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Finally, 15-PGDH expression and activity are significantly down-regulated in human colorectal carcinomas relative to matched normal tissue. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: In summary, these results suggest a novel tumor suppressive role for 15-PGDH due to loss of expression during colorectal tumor progression. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Prostaglandins (PGs) have been implicated as a regulator of tumor growth in mice and humans. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Since natural killer cell (NK) cytotoxicity may be an important component of immune surveillance against cancer, it is appropriate to study whether the amount of PGs produced by tumors may be sufficient to suppress NK activity. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Accordingly, the effect of various PGs on the NK activity of human peripheral mononuclear cells was investigated. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: The percentage cytotoxicity was measured by the release of Cr51 from labeled K562 and other target cells. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: At very high concentrations of PG (10(-6) M), suppression was seen with PGE2, PGD2, PGA2, and PGF2 alpha. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: However, at concentrations of PG in the physiologic range (10(-8) M), significant suppression was seen with PGE2 and PGD2 only. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: The percentage suppression with PGE2 ranged from 77% to 9.5% over a range of concentrations from 10(-5) to 10(-9) M (45% at 10(-8) M). Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Significant suppression was observed at 10(-8) M PGE2 with 4 different targets and at effector:target ratios varying from 50:1 to 12.5:1. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: To assess whether the suppressive effect of PGE2 was directed at the effector and/or target cell, K562 cells or effector cells were pretreated with PGE2. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Significant suppression was seen with effector cell pretreatment but not with target cell pretreatment. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Finally, the suppressive effects of supernatants obtained from tumor cell lines (polyoma virus-transformed murine fibroblast cell line, PY3T3) was determined. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: The marked suppressive effect of the supernatant could be attributed to its content of PGE. Relevant:
Query: Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. Document: Thus, it appears that the production of PGE by tumor cells may be an important modulator of human NK activity. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Podosomes (also termed invadopodia in cancer cells) are actin-rich adhesion structures with matrix degradation activity that develop in various cell types. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Despite their significant physiological importance, the molecular mechanism of podosome formation is largely unknown. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms of podosome formation. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: The expression of various phosphoinositide-binding domains revealed that the podosomes in Src-transformed NIH3T3 (NIH-src) cells are enriched with PtdIns(3,4)P2, suggesting an important role of this phosphoinositide in podosome formation. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Live-cell imaging analysis revealed that Src-expression stimulated podosome formation at focal adhesions of NIH3T3 cells after PtdIns(3,4)P2 accumulation. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: The adaptor protein Tks5/FISH, which is essential for podosome formation, was found to form a complex with Grb2 at adhesion sites in an Src-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Further, it was found that N-WASP bound all SH3 domains of Tks5/FISH, which facilitated circular podosome formation. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: These results indicate that augmentation of the N-WASP-Arp2/3 signal was accomplished on the platform of Tks5/FISH-Grb2 complex at focal adhesions, which is stabilized by PtdIns(3,4)P2. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Hypofunction of the N-methyl D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor (NMDAR) is hypothesized to be a mechanism underlying cognitive dysfunction in individuals with schizophrenia. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: For the schizophrenia-linked genes NRG1 and ERBB4, NMDAR hypofunction is thus considered a key detrimental consequence of the excessive NRG1-ErbB4 signaling found in people with schizophrenia. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: However, we show here that neuregulin 1β–ErbB4 (NRG1β-ErbB4) signaling does not cause general hypofunction of NMDARs. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Rather, we find that, in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, NRG1β-ErbB4 signaling suppresses the enhancement of synaptic NMDAR currents by the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: NRG1β-ErbB4 signaling prevented induction of long-term potentiation at hippocampal Schaffer collateral–CA1 synapses and suppressed Src-dependent enhancement of NMDAR responses during theta-burst stimulation. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Moreover, NRG1β-ErbB4 signaling prevented theta burst–induced phosphorylation of GluN2B by inhibiting Src kinase activity. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: We propose that NRG1-ErbB4 signaling participates in cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia by aberrantly suppressing Src-mediated enhancement of synaptic NMDAR function. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) uncaps a small number of the fast-growing (barbed) ends of actin filaments, thereby eliciting slow actin assembly and extension of filopodia in human blood platelets. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: These reactions, which also occur in response to immunologic perturbation of the integrin glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa, are sensitive to the phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor wortmannin. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Platelets deficient in GPIIb-IIIa integrins or with GPIIb-IIIa function inhibited by calcium chelation or the peptide RGDS have diminished PMA responsiveness. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: The effects of PMA contrast with thrombin receptor stimulation by >/=5 microM thrombin receptor-activating peptide (TRAP), which causes rapid and massive wortmannin-insensitive actin assembly and lamellar and filopodial extension. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: However, we show here that wortmannin can inhibit filopod formation if the thrombin receptor is ligated using suboptimal doses (<1 microM) of TRAP. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: Phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate inhibits actin filament severing and capping by human gelsolin in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. Document: The findings implicate D3 polyphosphoinositides and integrin signaling in PMA-mediated platelet stimulation and implicate D3 containing phosphoinositides generated in response to protein kinase C activation and GPIIb-IIIa signaling as late-acting intermediates leading to filopodial actin assembly. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess whether population screening for impaired vision among older people in the community leads to improvements in vision. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: DESIGN Systematic review of randomised controlled trials of population screening in the community that included any assessment of vision or visual function with at least 6 months' follow up. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: SUBJECTS Adults aged 65 or over. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Proportions with visual impairment in intervention and control groups with any method of assessing visual impairment. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: RESULTS There were no trials that primarily assessed visual screening. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Outcome data on vision were available for 3494 people in five trials of multiphasic assessment. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: All the trials used self reported measures for vision impairment, both as screening tools and as outcome measures. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: The inclusion of a visual screening component in the assessment did not result in improvements in self reported visual problems (pooled odds ratio 1.04:95% confidence interval 0.89 to 1.22). Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: A small reduction (11%) in the number of older people with self reported visual problems cannot be excluded. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: CONCLUSIONS Screening of asymptomatic older people in the community is not justified on present evidence. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Visual impairment in this age group can usually be reduced with treatment. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: It is unclear why no benefit was seen. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Further work is needed to clarify what interventions are appropriate for older people with unreported impairment of vision. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: BACKGROUND Glaucoma is the World's leading cause of irreversible blindness, and poses serious public health and economic concerns. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: DESIGN   Review. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: SAMPLES Published randomized trials and population-based studies since 1985. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: METHODS We report the economic impact of primary open-angle glaucoma and model the effect of changes in detection rates and management strategies. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The cost-effectiveness of different interventions to prevent vision loss from primary open-angle glaucoma was measured in terms of financial cost (Australian dollars) and disability-adjusted life years. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: RESULTS The prevalence of glaucoma in Australia is expected to increase from 208 000 in 2005 to 379 000 in 2025 because of the aging population. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Health system costs over the same time period are estimated to increase from $AU355 million to $AU784 million. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Total costs (health system costs, indirect costs and costs of loss of well-being) will increase from $AU1.9 billion to $AU4.3 billion in Australia. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: CONCLUSION Primary open-angle glaucoma poses a significant economic burden, which will increase substantially by 2025. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: This dynamic model provides a valuable tool for ongoing policy formulation and determining the economic impact of interventions to better prevent visual impairment and blindness from glaucoma. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Purpose To evaluate the global trends in health burden of people visually impaired from cataract in terms of disability-adjusted life years (DALY) and its correlations with national levels of socioeconomic development. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Methods Global, regional, and national DALY numbers, crude rate, and age-standardized rate of cataract vision loss by age and sex were obtained from the database of the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: The human development index, per capita gross domestic product, and other country-level data were derived from international open databases. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Regression analysis was used to assess the correlations between age-standardized DALY rate and socioeconomic variables. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Results The global DALY numbers of cataract vision loss increased by 89.42%, from 2048.18 (95%CI [confidence interval]: 1457.60-2761.80) thousands in 1990 to 3879.74 (95% CI: 2766.07-5232.43) thousands in 2015 (P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Females had higher DALY number 315.83 (95%CI: 237.17-394.4) and crude rate 38.29 (95%CI: 35.35-41.23) after adjusting for age and country (all P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: The age-standardized DALY rate was higher in countries with low human development index (HDI), with 91.03 (95%CI: 73.04-108.75) for low HDI, 81.67 (95%CI: 53.24-108.82) for medium HDI, 55.89 (95%CI: 36.87-69.63) for high HDI, and 17.10 (95%CI: 13.91-26.84) for very high HDI countries (P < 0.01), respectively. Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: The national age-standardized DALY rates in 2015 were negatively associated with both HDI (R2 = 0.489, P < 0.001) and per capita gross domestic product (R2 = 0.331, P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Stepwise multiple regression showed that HDI was significantly correlated with national age-standardized DALY rates in 2015 after adjusting for other confounding factors (P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. Document: Conclusions The global health burden of vision loss due to cataract increased between 1990 and 2015 despite considerable efforts from the World Health Organization and VISION 2020 initiatives. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: UNLABELLED Congruent audiovisual speech enhances our ability to comprehend a speaker, even in noise-free conditions. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: When incongruent auditory and visual information is presented concurrently, it can hinder a listener's perception and even cause him or her to perceive information that was not presented in either modality. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Efforts to investigate the neural basis of these effects have often focused on the special case of discrete audiovisual syllables that are spatially and temporally congruent, with less work done on the case of natural, continuous speech. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Recent electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that cortical response measures to continuous auditory speech can be easily obtained using multivariate analysis methods. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Here, we apply such methods to the case of audiovisual speech and, importantly, present a novel framework for indexing multisensory integration in the context of continuous speech. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Specifically, we examine how the temporal and contextual congruency of ongoing audiovisual speech affects the cortical encoding of the speech envelope in humans using electroencephalography. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: We demonstrate that the cortical representation of the speech envelope is enhanced by the presentation of congruent audiovisual speech in noise-free conditions. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Furthermore, we show that this is likely attributable to the contribution of neural generators that are not particularly active during unimodal stimulation and that it is most prominent at the temporal scale corresponding to syllabic rate (2-6 Hz). Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Finally, our data suggest that neural entrainment to the speech envelope is inhibited when the auditory and visual streams are incongruent both temporally and contextually. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Seeing a speaker's face as he or she talks can greatly help in understanding what the speaker is saying. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: This is because the speaker's facial movements relay information about what the speaker is saying, but also, importantly, when the speaker is saying it. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Studying how the brain uses this timing relationship to combine information from continuous auditory and visual speech has traditionally been methodologically difficult. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Here we introduce a new approach for doing this using relatively inexpensive and noninvasive scalp recordings. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Specifically, we show that the brain's representation of auditory speech is enhanced when the accompanying visual speech signal shares the same timing. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Furthermore, we show that this enhancement is most pronounced at a time scale that corresponds to mean syllable length. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: During continuous speech, lip movements provide visual temporal signals that facilitate speech processing. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Here, using MEG we directly investigated how these visual signals interact with rhythmic brain activity in participants listening to and seeing the speaker. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: First, we investigated coherence between oscillatory brain activity and speaker's lip movements and demonstrated significant entrainment in visual cortex. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: We then used partial coherence to remove contributions of the coherent auditory speech signal from the lip-brain coherence. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Comparing this synchronization between different attention conditions revealed that attending visual speech enhances the coherence between activity in visual cortex and the speaker's lips. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Further, we identified a significant partial coherence between left motor cortex and lip movements and this partial coherence directly predicted comprehension accuracy. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Our results emphasize the importance of visually entrained and attention-modulated rhythmic brain activity for the enhancement of audiovisual speech processing. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: The human ability to continuously track dynamic environmental stimuli, in particular speech, is proposed to profit from "entrainment" of endogenous neural oscillations, which involves phase reorganization such that "optimal" phase comes into line with temporally expected critical events, resulting in improved processing. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: The current experiment goes beyond previous work in this domain by addressing two thus far unanswered questions. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: First, how general is neural entrainment to environmental rhythms: Can neural oscillations be entrained by temporal dynamics of ongoing rhythmic stimuli without abrupt onsets? Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Second, does neural entrainment optimize performance of the perceptual system: Does human auditory perception benefit from neural phase reorganization? Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: In a human electroencephalography study, listeners detected short gaps distributed uniformly with respect to the phase angle of a 3-Hz frequency-modulated stimulus. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Listeners' ability to detect gaps in the frequency-modulated sound was not uniformly distributed in time, but clustered in certain preferred phases of the modulation. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Moreover, the optimal stimulus phase was individually determined by the neural delta oscillation entrained by the stimulus. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: Finally, delta phase predicted behavior better than stimulus phase or the event-related potential after the gap. Relevant:
Query: Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. Document: This study demonstrates behavioral benefits of phase realignment in response to frequency-modulated auditory stimuli, overall suggesting that frequency fluctuations in natural environmental input provide a pacing signal for endogenous neural oscillations, thereby influencing perceptual processing. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONTEXT Antibody-based induction therapy plus calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) reduce acute rejection rates in kidney recipients; however, opportunistic infections and toxic CNI effects remain challenging. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess autologous MSCs as replacement of antibody induction for patients with end-stage renal disease who undergo ABO-compatible, cross-match-negative kidney transplants from a living-related donor. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS One hundred fifty-nine patients were enrolled in this single-site, prospective, open-label, randomized study from February 2008-May 2009, when recruitment was completed. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: INTERVENTION Patients were inoculated with marrow-derived autologous MSC (1-2 x 10(6)/kg) at kidney reperfusion and two weeks later. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Fifty-three patients received standard-dose and 52 patients received low-dose CNIs (80% of standard); 51 patients in the control group received anti-IL-2 receptor antibody plus standard-dose CNIs. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary measure was 1-year incidence of acute rejection and renal function (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR]); the secondary measure was patient and graft survival and incidence of adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: RESULTS Patient and graft survival at 13 to 30 months was similar in all groups. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: After 6 months, 4 of 53 patients (7.5%) in the autologous MSC plus standard-dose CNI group (95% CI, 0.4%-14.7%; P = .04) and 4 of 52 patients (7.7%) in the low-dose group (95% CI, 0.5%-14.9%; P = .046) compared with 11 of 51 controls (21.6%; 95% CI, 10.5%-32.6%) had biopsy-confirmed acute rejection. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: None of the patients in either autologous MSC group had glucorticoid-resistant rejection, whereas 4 patients (7.8%) in the control group did (95% CI, 0.6%-15.1%; overall P = .02). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Renal function recovered faster among both MSC groups showing increased eGFR levels during the first month after surgery than the control group. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Patients receiving standard-dose CNI had a mean difference of 6.2 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 0.4-11.9; P=.04) and those in the low-dose CNI of 10.0 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 3.8-16.2; P=.002). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of MSC-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.20-0.85, P=.02)   CONCLUSION Among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous MSCs compared with anti-IL-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00658073. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONTEXT Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are under evaluation as a therapy for ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Both autologous and allogeneic MSC therapies are possible; however, their safety and efficacy have not been compared. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: OBJECTIVE To test whether allogeneic MSCs are as safe and effective as autologous MSCs in patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction due to ICM. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS A phase 1/2 randomized comparison (POSEIDON study) in a US tertiary-care referral hospital of allogeneic and autologous MSCs in 30 patients with LV dysfunction due to ICM between April 2, 2010, and September 14, 2011, with 13-month follow-up. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: INTERVENTION Twenty million, 100 million, or 200 million cells (5 patients in each cell type per dose level) were delivered by transendocardial stem cell injection into 10 LV sites. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Thirty-day postcatheterization incidence of predefined treatment-emergent serious adverse events (SAEs). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Efficacy assessments included 6-minute walk test, exercise peak VO2, Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ), New York Heart Association class, LV volumes, ejection fraction (EF), early enhancement defect (EED; infarct size), and sphericity index. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: RESULTS Within 30 days, 1 patient in each group (treatment-emergent SAE rate, 6.7%) was hospitalized for heart failure, less than the prespecified stopping event rate of 25%. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The 1-year incidence of SAEs was 33.3% (n = 5) in the allogeneic group and 53.3% (n = 8) in the autologous group (P = .46). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: At 1 year, there were no ventricular arrhythmia SAEs observed among allogeneic recipients compared with 4 patients (26.7%) in the autologous group (P = .10). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Relative to baseline, autologous but not allogeneic MSC therapy was associated with an improvement in the 6-minute walk test and the MLHFQ score, but neither improved exercise VO2 max. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic and autologous MSCs reduced mean EED by −33.21% (95% CI, −43.61% to −22.81%; P < .001) and sphericity index but did not increase EF. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic MSCs reduced LV end-diastolic volumes. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Low-dose concentration MSCs (20 million cells) produced greatest reductions in LV volumes and increased EF. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic MSCs did not stimulate significant donor-specific alloimmune reactions. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this early-stage study of patients with ICM, transendocardial injection of allogeneic and autologous MSCs without a placebo control were both associated with low rates of treatment-emergent SAEs, including immunologic reactions. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: In aggregate, MSC injection favorably affected patient functional capacity, quality of life, and ventricular remodeling. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01087996. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Background In a phase 1 trial, axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi‐cel), an autologous anti‐CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T‐cell therapy, showed efficacy in patients with refractory large B‐cell lymphoma after the failure of conventional therapy. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Methods In this multicenter, phase 2 trial, we enrolled 111 patients with diffuse large B‐cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal B‐cell lymphoma, or transformed follicular lymphoma who had refractory disease despite undergoing recommended prior therapy. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Patients received a target dose of 2×106 anti‐CD19 CAR T cells per kilogram of body weight after receiving a conditioning regimen of low‐dose cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The primary end point was the rate of objective response (calculated as the combined rates of complete response and partial response). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Secondary end points included overall survival, safety, and biomarker assessments. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Results Among the 111 patients who were enrolled, axi‐cel was successfully manufactured for 110 (99%) and administered to 101 (91%). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The objective response rate was 82%, and the complete response rate was 54%.With a median follow‐up of 15.4 months, 42% of the patients continued to have a response, with 40% continuing to have a complete response. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The overall rate of survival at 18 months was 52%. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The most common adverse events of grade 3 or higher during treatment were neutropenia (in 78% of the patients), anemia (in 43%), and thrombocytopenia (in 38%). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Grade 3 or higher cytokine release syndrome and neurologic events occurred in 13% and 28% of the patients, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Three of the patients died during treatment. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Higher CAR T‐cell levels in blood were associated with response. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Conclusions In this multicenter study, patients with refractory large B‐cell lymphoma who received CAR T‐cell therapy with axi‐cel had high levels of durable response, with a safety profile that included myelosuppression, the cytokine release syndrome, and neurologic events. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: (Funded by Kite Pharma and the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society Therapy Acceleration Program; ZUMA‐1 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02348216.) Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONTEXT Antibody-based induction therapy plus calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) reduce acute rejection rates in kidney recipients; however, opportunistic infections and toxic CNI effects remain challenging. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess autologous MSCs as replacement of antibody induction for patients with end-stage renal disease who undergo ABO-compatible, cross-match-negative kidney transplants from a living-related donor. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS One hundred fifty-nine patients were enrolled in this single-site, prospective, open-label, randomized study from February 2008-May 2009, when recruitment was completed. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: INTERVENTION Patients were inoculated with marrow-derived autologous MSC (1-2 x 10(6)/kg) at kidney reperfusion and two weeks later. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Fifty-three patients received standard-dose and 52 patients received low-dose CNIs (80% of standard); 51 patients in the control group received anti-IL-2 receptor antibody plus standard-dose CNIs. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary measure was 1-year incidence of acute rejection and renal function (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR]); the secondary measure was patient and graft survival and incidence of adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: RESULTS Patient and graft survival at 13 to 30 months was similar in all groups. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: After 6 months, 4 of 53 patients (7.5%) in the autologous MSC plus standard-dose CNI group (95% CI, 0.4%-14.7%; P = .04) and 4 of 52 patients (7.7%) in the low-dose group (95% CI, 0.5%-14.9%; P = .046) compared with 11 of 51 controls (21.6%; 95% CI, 10.5%-32.6%) had biopsy-confirmed acute rejection. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: None of the patients in either autologous MSC group had glucorticoid-resistant rejection, whereas 4 patients (7.8%) in the control group did (95% CI, 0.6%-15.1%; overall P = .02). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Renal function recovered faster among both MSC groups showing increased eGFR levels during the first month after surgery than the control group. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Patients receiving standard-dose CNI had a mean difference of 6.2 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 0.4-11.9; P=.04) and those in the low-dose CNI of 10.0 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 3.8-16.2; P=.002). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of MSC-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.20-0.85, P=.02)   CONCLUSION Among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous MSCs compared with anti-IL-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00658073. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The study of the evolution and specificities of neutralizing antibodies during the course of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection may be important in the discovery of possible targets for vaccine design. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: In this study, we assessed the autologous and heterologous neutralization responses of 14 HIV-1 subtype C-infected individuals, using envelope clones obtained within the first 2 months postinfection. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Our data show that potent but relatively strain-specific neutralizing antibodies develop within 3 to 12 months of HIV-1 infection. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The magnitude of this response was associated with shorter V1-to-V5 envelope lengths and fewer glycosylation sites, particularly in the V1-V2 region. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Anti-MPER antibodies were detected in 4 of 14 individuals within a year of infection, while antibodies to CD4-induced (CD4i) epitopes developed to high titers in 12 participants, in most cases before the development of autologous neutralizing antibodies. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: However, neither anti-MPER nor anti-CD4i antibody specificity conferred neutralization breadth. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: These data provide insights into the kinetics, potency, breadth, and epitope specificity of neutralizing antibody responses in acute HIV-1 subtype C infection. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONTEXT Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are under evaluation as a therapy for ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Both autologous and allogeneic MSC therapies are possible; however, their safety and efficacy have not been compared. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: OBJECTIVE To test whether allogeneic MSCs are as safe and effective as autologous MSCs in patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction due to ICM. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS A phase 1/2 randomized comparison (POSEIDON study) in a US tertiary-care referral hospital of allogeneic and autologous MSCs in 30 patients with LV dysfunction due to ICM between April 2, 2010, and September 14, 2011, with 13-month follow-up. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: INTERVENTION Twenty million, 100 million, or 200 million cells (5 patients in each cell type per dose level) were delivered by transendocardial stem cell injection into 10 LV sites. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Thirty-day postcatheterization incidence of predefined treatment-emergent serious adverse events (SAEs). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Efficacy assessments included 6-minute walk test, exercise peak VO2, Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ), New York Heart Association class, LV volumes, ejection fraction (EF), early enhancement defect (EED; infarct size), and sphericity index. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: RESULTS Within 30 days, 1 patient in each group (treatment-emergent SAE rate, 6.7%) was hospitalized for heart failure, less than the prespecified stopping event rate of 25%. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The 1-year incidence of SAEs was 33.3% (n = 5) in the allogeneic group and 53.3% (n = 8) in the autologous group (P = .46). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: At 1 year, there were no ventricular arrhythmia SAEs observed among allogeneic recipients compared with 4 patients (26.7%) in the autologous group (P = .10). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Relative to baseline, autologous but not allogeneic MSC therapy was associated with an improvement in the 6-minute walk test and the MLHFQ score, but neither improved exercise VO2 max. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic and autologous MSCs reduced mean EED by −33.21% (95% CI, −43.61% to −22.81%; P < .001) and sphericity index but did not increase EF. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic MSCs reduced LV end-diastolic volumes. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Low-dose concentration MSCs (20 million cells) produced greatest reductions in LV volumes and increased EF. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic MSCs did not stimulate significant donor-specific alloimmune reactions. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this early-stage study of patients with ICM, transendocardial injection of allogeneic and autologous MSCs without a placebo control were both associated with low rates of treatment-emergent SAEs, including immunologic reactions. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: In aggregate, MSC injection favorably affected patient functional capacity, quality of life, and ventricular remodeling. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01087996. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONTEXT Antibody-based induction therapy plus calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) reduce acute rejection rates in kidney recipients; however, opportunistic infections and toxic CNI effects remain challenging. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess autologous MSCs as replacement of antibody induction for patients with end-stage renal disease who undergo ABO-compatible, cross-match-negative kidney transplants from a living-related donor. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS One hundred fifty-nine patients were enrolled in this single-site, prospective, open-label, randomized study from February 2008-May 2009, when recruitment was completed. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: INTERVENTION Patients were inoculated with marrow-derived autologous MSC (1-2 x 10(6)/kg) at kidney reperfusion and two weeks later. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Fifty-three patients received standard-dose and 52 patients received low-dose CNIs (80% of standard); 51 patients in the control group received anti-IL-2 receptor antibody plus standard-dose CNIs. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary measure was 1-year incidence of acute rejection and renal function (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR]); the secondary measure was patient and graft survival and incidence of adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: RESULTS Patient and graft survival at 13 to 30 months was similar in all groups. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: After 6 months, 4 of 53 patients (7.5%) in the autologous MSC plus standard-dose CNI group (95% CI, 0.4%-14.7%; P = .04) and 4 of 52 patients (7.7%) in the low-dose group (95% CI, 0.5%-14.9%; P = .046) compared with 11 of 51 controls (21.6%; 95% CI, 10.5%-32.6%) had biopsy-confirmed acute rejection. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: None of the patients in either autologous MSC group had glucorticoid-resistant rejection, whereas 4 patients (7.8%) in the control group did (95% CI, 0.6%-15.1%; overall P = .02). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Renal function recovered faster among both MSC groups showing increased eGFR levels during the first month after surgery than the control group. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Patients receiving standard-dose CNI had a mean difference of 6.2 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 0.4-11.9; P=.04) and those in the low-dose CNI of 10.0 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 3.8-16.2; P=.002). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of MSC-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.20-0.85, P=.02)   CONCLUSION Among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous MSCs compared with anti-IL-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00658073. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONTEXT Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are under evaluation as a therapy for ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Both autologous and allogeneic MSC therapies are possible; however, their safety and efficacy have not been compared. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: OBJECTIVE To test whether allogeneic MSCs are as safe and effective as autologous MSCs in patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction due to ICM. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS A phase 1/2 randomized comparison (POSEIDON study) in a US tertiary-care referral hospital of allogeneic and autologous MSCs in 30 patients with LV dysfunction due to ICM between April 2, 2010, and September 14, 2011, with 13-month follow-up. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: INTERVENTION Twenty million, 100 million, or 200 million cells (5 patients in each cell type per dose level) were delivered by transendocardial stem cell injection into 10 LV sites. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Thirty-day postcatheterization incidence of predefined treatment-emergent serious adverse events (SAEs). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Efficacy assessments included 6-minute walk test, exercise peak VO2, Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ), New York Heart Association class, LV volumes, ejection fraction (EF), early enhancement defect (EED; infarct size), and sphericity index. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: RESULTS Within 30 days, 1 patient in each group (treatment-emergent SAE rate, 6.7%) was hospitalized for heart failure, less than the prespecified stopping event rate of 25%. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The 1-year incidence of SAEs was 33.3% (n = 5) in the allogeneic group and 53.3% (n = 8) in the autologous group (P = .46). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: At 1 year, there were no ventricular arrhythmia SAEs observed among allogeneic recipients compared with 4 patients (26.7%) in the autologous group (P = .10). Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Relative to baseline, autologous but not allogeneic MSC therapy was associated with an improvement in the 6-minute walk test and the MLHFQ score, but neither improved exercise VO2 max. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic and autologous MSCs reduced mean EED by −33.21% (95% CI, −43.61% to −22.81%; P < .001) and sphericity index but did not increase EF. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic MSCs reduced LV end-diastolic volumes. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Low-dose concentration MSCs (20 million cells) produced greatest reductions in LV volumes and increased EF. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Allogeneic MSCs did not stimulate significant donor-specific alloimmune reactions. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this early-stage study of patients with ICM, transendocardial injection of allogeneic and autologous MSCs without a placebo control were both associated with low rates of treatment-emergent SAEs, including immunologic reactions. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: In aggregate, MSC injection favorably affected patient functional capacity, quality of life, and ventricular remodeling. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01087996. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The low number of CD4+ CD25+ regulatory T cells (Tregs), their anergic phenotype, and diverse antigen specificity present major challenges to harnessing this potent tolerogenic population to treat autoimmunity and transplant rejection. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: In this study, we describe a robust method to expand antigen-specific Tregs from autoimmune-prone nonobese diabetic mice. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Purified CD4+ CD25+ Tregs were expanded up to 200-fold in less than 2 wk in vitro using a combination of anti-CD3, anti-CD28, and interleukin 2. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: The expanded Tregs express a classical cell surface phenotype and function both in vitro and in vivo to suppress effector T cell functions. Relevant:
Query: Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. Document: Most significantly, small numbers of antigen-specific Tregs can reverse diabetes after disease onset, suggesting a novel approach to cellular immunotherapy for autoimmunity. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), a selective mechanism for degradation of cytosolic proteins in lysosomes, contributes to the removal of altered proteins as part of the cellular quality-control systems. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: We have previously found that CMA activity declines in aged organisms and have proposed that this failure in cellular clearance could contribute to the accumulation of altered proteins, the abnormal cellular homeostasis and, eventually, the functional loss characteristic of aged organisms. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: To determine whether these negative features of aging can be prevented by maintaining efficient autophagic activity until late in life, in this work we have corrected the CMA defect in aged rodents. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: We have generated a double transgenic mouse model in which the amount of the lysosomal receptor for CMA, previously shown to decrease in abundance with age, can be modulated. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: We have analyzed in this model the consequences of preventing the age-dependent decrease in receptor abundance in aged rodents at the cellular and organ levels. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: We show here that CMA activity is maintained until advanced ages if the decrease in the receptor abundance is prevented and that preservation of autophagic activity is associated with lower intracellular accumulation of damaged proteins, better ability to handle protein damage and improved organ function. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: The ability to maintain a functional proteome, or proteostasis, declines during the ageing process. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Damaged and misfolded proteins accumulate with age, impairing cell function and tissue homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: The accumulation of damaged proteins contributes to multiple age-related diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's or Huntington's disease. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Damaged proteins are degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome system or through autophagy-lysosome, key components of the proteostasis network. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Modulation of either proteasome activity or autophagic-lysosomal potential extends lifespan and protects organisms from symptoms associated with proteostasis disorders, suggesting that protein clearance mechanisms are directly linked to ageing and age-associated diseases. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Liver is a vital organ with many important functions, and the maintenance of normal hepatic function is necessary for health. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: As an essential mechanism for maintaining cellular homeostasis, autophagy plays an important role in ensuring normal organ function. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Studies have indicated that the degeneration of hepatic function is associated with autophagic deficiency in aging liver. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: However, the underlying mechanisms still remain unclear. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: The serine protease Omi/HtrA2 belongs to the HtrA family and promotes apoptosis through either the caspase-dependent or caspase-independent pathway. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Mice lacking Omi/HtrA2 exhibited progeria symptoms (premature aging), which were similar to the characteristics of autophagic insufficiency. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: In this study, we demonstrated that both the protein level of Omi/HtrA2 in liver and hepatic function were reduced as rats aged, and there was a positive correlation between them. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Furthermore, several autophagy-related proteins (LC3II/I, Beclin-1 and LAMP2) in rat liver were decreased significantly with the increasing of age. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: Finally, inhibition of Omi/HtrA2 resulted in reduced autophagy and hepatic dysfunction. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: In conclusion, these results suggest that Omi/HtrA2 participates in age-related autophagic deficiency in rat liver. Relevant:
Query: Autophagy declines in aged organisms. Document: This study may offer a novel insight into the mechanism involved in liver aging. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: IMPORTANCE Bariatric surgery is associated with sustained weight loss and improved physical health status for severely obese individuals. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Mental health conditions may be common among patients seeking bariatric surgery; however, the prevalence of these conditions and whether they are associated with postoperative outcomes remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the prevalence of mental health conditions among bariatric surgery candidates and recipients, to evaluate the association between preoperative mental health conditions and health outcomes following bariatric surgery, and to evaluate the association between surgery and the clinical course of mental health conditions. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: DATA SOURCES We searched PubMed, MEDLINE on OVID, and PsycINFO for studies published between January 1988 and November 2015. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Study quality was assessed using an adapted tool for risk of bias; quality of evidence was rated based on GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) criteria. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: FINDINGS We identified 68 publications meeting inclusion criteria: 59 reporting the prevalence of preoperative mental health conditions (65,363 patients) and 27 reporting associations between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative outcomes (50,182 patients). Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Among patients seeking and undergoing bariatric surgery, the most common mental health conditions, based on random-effects estimates of prevalence, were depression (19% [95% CI, 14%-25%]) and binge eating disorder (17% [95% CI, 13%-21%]). Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: There was conflicting evidence regarding the association between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative weight loss. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Neither depression nor binge eating disorder was consistently associated with differences in weight outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Bariatric surgery was, however, consistently associated with postoperative decreases in the prevalence of depression (7 studies; 8%-74% decrease) and the severity of depressive symptoms (6 studies; 40%-70% decrease). Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Mental health conditions are common among bariatric surgery patients-in particular, depression and binge eating disorder. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: There is inconsistent evidence regarding the association between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative weight loss. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Moderate-quality evidence supports an association between bariatric surgery and lower rates of depression postoperatively. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Extreme obesity is associated with severe psychiatric and somatic comorbidity and impairment of psychosocial functioning. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment not only with regard to weight loss but also with obesity-associated illnesses. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Health-related psychological and psychosocial variables have been increasingly considered as important outcome variables of bariatric surgery. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: However, the long-term impact of bariatric surgery on psychological and psychosocial functioning is largely unclear. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between the course of weight and psychological variables including depression, anxiety, health-related quality of life (HRQOL), and self-esteem up to 4 years after obesity surgery. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: By standardized questionnaires prior to (T1) and 1 year (T2), 2 years (T3), and 4 years (T4) after surgery, 148 patients (47 males (31.8 %), 101 females (68.2 %), mean age 38.8 ± 10.2 years) were assessed. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: On average, participants lost 24.6 % of their initial weight 1 year after surgery, 25.1 % after 2 years, and 22.3 % after 4 years. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Statistical analysis revealed significant improvements in depressive symptoms, physical dimension of quality of life, and self-esteem with peak improvements 1 year after surgery. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: These improvements were largely maintained. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Significant correlations between weight loss and improvements in depression, physical aspects of HRQOL (T2, T3, and T4), and self-esteem (T3) were observed. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Corresponding to the considerable weight loss after bariatric surgery, important aspects of mental health improved significantly during the 4-year follow-up period. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: However, parallel to weight regain, psychological improvements showed a slow but not significant decline over time. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Pre-operative psychological assessment is recommended by international guidelines for bariatric surgery candidates. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Thereby, service teams caring for bariatric patients should include at least one mental health provider (e.g., a psychologist or psychiatrist). Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: The objective of this study was to evaluate the psychology and psychiatry resources and practices in the 37 specialized obesity centers (CSOs) created by the French Ministry of Health. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: CSO coordinators were contacted by e-mail to collect general information on the centers (e.g., number of bariatric operations). Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Secondly, psychologists and psychiatrists of each center completed an anonymous questionnaire assessing their professional practices and their organization of care pathways. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: The vast majority of CSO coordinators (81%, n = 26/32) answered our survey. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: These results show significant differences and shortages in terms of the psychology/psychiatry resources available. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Most of the psychologists (n = 26/31) and psychiatrists (n = 10/10) stated that they systematically meet new patients only before surgery (56%) or both before and after the operation (30%); however, some psychologists and psychiatrists (14%) do not systematically meet all the patients (before and/or after surgery). Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Nevertheless, all the professionals provide psychology assessments, and about 75% of them offer a psychological follow-up, indicating a similarity regarding the practices of psychologists and psychiatrists. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Our results highlight the place of psychological/psychiatric evaluations in French CSOs and emphasize the absence of mental health providers in several of these services. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: Post-operative psychological follow-up is not usually provided. Relevant:
Query: Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. Document: It would be appropriate to create clear recommendations for post-operative psychological or psychiatric long-term follow-up. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: In systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), self-reactive antibodies can target the kidney (lupus nephritis), leading to functional failure and possible mortality. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: We report that activation of basophils by autoreactive IgE causes their homing to lymph nodes, promoting T helper type 2 (T(H)2) cell differentiation and enhancing the production of self-reactive antibodies that cause lupus-like nephritis in mice lacking the Src family protein tyrosine kinase Lyn (Lyn(-/-) mice). Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Individuals with SLE also have elevated serum IgE, self-reactive IgEs and activated basophils that express CD62 ligand (CD62L) and the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecule human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR), parameters that are associated with increased disease activity and active lupus nephritis. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Basophils were also present in the lymph nodes and spleen of subjects with SLE. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Thus, in Lyn(-/-) mice, basophils and IgE autoantibodies amplify autoantibody production that leads to lupus nephritis, and in individuals with SLE IgE autoantibodies and activated basophils are factors associated with disease activity and nephritis. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by a breakdown of tolerance to nuclear antigens and the development of immune complexes. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Genomic approaches have shown that human SLE leukocytes homogeneously express type I interferon (IFN)-induced and neutrophil-related transcripts. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Increased production and/or bioavailability of IFN-α and associated alterations in dendritic cell (DC) homeostasis have been linked to lupus pathogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Although neutrophils have long been shown to be associated with lupus, their potential role in disease pathogenesis remains elusive. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Here, we show that mature SLE neutrophils are primed in vivo by type I IFN and die upon exposure to SLE-derived anti-ribonucleoprotein antibodies, releasing neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: SLE NETs contain DNA as well as large amounts of LL37 and HMGB1, neutrophil proteins that facilitate the uptake and recognition of mammalian DNA by plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs). Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Indeed, SLE NETs activate pDCs to produce high levels of IFN-α in a DNA- and TLR9 (Toll-like receptor 9)-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Our results reveal an unsuspected role for neutrophils in SLE pathogenesis and identify a novel link between nucleic acid-recognizing antibodies and type I IFN production in this disease. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: PURPOSE OF REVIEW Recent discoveries implicate neutrophils as important regulators of innate and adaptive immunity and in the development of organ damage in systemic autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: RECENT FINDINGS Various putative SLE biomarkers are neutrophil-related, including neutrophil granular proteins and histones undergoing post-translational modifications during neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: In the bone marrow, lupus neutrophils can drive B and T cell abnormalities, at least in part, by their enhanced production of type-I interferons, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) and the B-cell stimulating factors B-cell activating factor (BAFF) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL). Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Lupus neutrophils and, in particular, lupus low-density granulocytes (a distinct pathogenic subset) display epigenetic modifications and genomic alterations that may be relevant to their deleterious roles in SLE. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Proteins and enzymes externalized by lupus NETs can affect vascular health by inducing endothelial apoptosis and oxidizing lipoproteins. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Hampering NET formation through peptidylarginine deiminase inhibitors abrogates lupus phenotype and atherosclerosis in murine studies. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: SUMMARY Recent discoveries support the notion that neutrophils, low-density granulocytes and aberrant NET formation and clearance play important roles in lupus pathogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Document: Future studies should focus on how to selectively target these immunostimulatory pathways in this disease. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: BACKGROUND Birth size, perhaps a proxy for prenatal environment, might be a correlate of subsequent breast cancer risk, but findings from epidemiological studies have been inconsistent. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: We re-analysed individual participant data from published and unpublished studies to obtain more precise estimates of the magnitude and shape of the birth size-breast cancer association. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Studies were identified through computer-assisted and manual searches, and personal communication with investigators. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Individual participant data from 32 studies, comprising 22,058 breast cancer cases, were obtained. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Random effect models were used, if appropriate, to combine study-specific estimates of effect. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Birth weight was positively associated with breast cancer risk in studies based on birth records (pooled relative risk [RR] per one standard deviation [SD] [= 0.5 kg] increment in birth weight: 1.06; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02-1.09) and parental recall when the participants were children (1.02; 95% CI 0.99-1.05), but not in those based on adult self-reports, or maternal recall during the woman's adulthood (0.98; 95% CI 0.95-1.01) (p for heterogeneity between data sources = 0.003). Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Relative to women who weighed 3.000-3.499 kg, the risk was 0.96 (CI 0.80-1.16) in those who weighed < 2.500 kg, and 1.12 (95% CI 1.00-1.25) in those who weighed > or = 4.000 kg (p for linear trend = 0.001) in birth record data. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Birth length and head circumference from birth records were also positively associated with breast cancer risk (pooled RR per one SD increment: 1.06 [95% CI 1.03-1.10] and 1.09 [95% CI 1.03-1.15], respectively). Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Simultaneous adjustment for these three birth size variables showed that length was the strongest independent predictor of risk. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: The birth size effects did not appear to be confounded or mediated by established breast cancer risk factors and were not modified by age or menopausal status. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: The cumulative incidence of breast cancer per 100 women by age 80 y in the study populations was estimated to be 10.0, 10.0, 10.4, and 11.5 in those who were, respectively, in the bottom, second, third, and top fourths of the birth length distribution. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: CONCLUSIONS This pooled analysis of individual participant data is consistent with birth size, and in particular birth length, being an independent correlate of breast cancer risk in adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: CONTEXT During pregnancy, serum levels of estrogen, progesterone, and other hormones are markedly higher than during other periods of life. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Pregnancy hormones primarily are produced in the placenta, and signs of placental impairment may serve as indirect markers of hormone exposures during pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: During pregnancy, these markers have been inconsistently associated with subsequent risk of breast cancer in the mother. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine associations between indirect markers of hormonal exposures, such as placental weight and other pregnancy characteristics, and maternal risk of developing breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: DESIGN AND SETTING Population-based cohort study using data from the Swedish Birth Register, the Swedish Cancer Register, the Swedish Cause of Death Register, and the Swedish Register of Population and Population Changes. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: PARTICIPANTS Women included in the Sweden Birth Register who delivered singletons between 1982 and 1989, with complete information on date of birth and gestational age. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Women were followed up until the occurrence of breast cancer, death, or end of follow-up (December 31, 2001). Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate associations between hormone exposures and risks of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Incidence of invasive breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: RESULTS Of 314,019 women in the cohort, 2216 (0.7%) developed breast cancer during the follow-up through 2001, of whom 2100 (95%) were diagnosed before age 50 years. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Compared with women who had placentas weighing less than 500 g in 2 consecutive pregnancies, the risk of breast cancer was increased among women whose placentas weighed between 500 and 699 g in their first pregnancy and at least 700 g in their second pregnancy (or vice versa) (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.82; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.07-3.08), and the corresponding risk was doubled among women whose placentas weighed at least 700 g in both pregnancies (adjusted hazard ratio, 2.05; 95% CI, 1.15-3.64). Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: A high birth weight (> or =4000 g) in 2 successive births was associated with an increased risk of breast cancer before but not after adjusting for placental weight and other covariates (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.76-1.59). Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: CONCLUSIONS Placental weight is positively associated with maternal risk of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: These results further support the hypothesis that pregnancy hormones are important modifiers of subsequent maternal breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: INTRODUCTION Various perinatal factors, including birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and parental smoking, have been postulated to affect breast cancer risk in daughters by altering the hormonal environment of the developing fetal mammary glands. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Despite ample biologic plausibility, epidemiologic studies to date have yielded conflicting results. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: We investigated the associations between perinatal factors and subsequent breast cancer risk through meta-analyses. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: METHODS We reviewed breast cancer studies published from January 1966 to February 2007 that included data on birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and maternal or paternal smoking. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Meta-analyses using random effect models were employed to summarize the results. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: RESULTS We found that heavier birth weights were associated with increased breast cancer risk, with studies involving five categories of birth weight identifying odds ratios (ORs) of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04 to 1.48) for 4,000 g or more and 1.15 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.26) for 3,500 g to 3,999 g, relative to a birth weight of 2,500 to 2,599 g. These studies provided no support for a J-shaped relationship of birthweight to risk. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Support for an association with birthweight was also derived from studies based on three birth weight categories (OR 1.15 [95% CI 1.01 to 1.31] for > or =4,000 g relative to <3,000 g) and two birth weight categories (OR 1.09 [95% CI 1.02 to 1.18] for > or =3,000 g relative to <3,000 g). Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Women born to older mothers and twins were also at some increased risk, but the results were heterogeneous across studies and publication years. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: Birth order, prematurity, and maternal smoking were unrelated to breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. Document: CONCLUSION Our findings provide some support for the hypothesis that in utero exposures reflective of higher endogenous hormone levels could affect risk for development of breast cancer in adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Genetic mutations in TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TARDBP, also known as TDP-43) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and an increase in the presence of TDP-43 (encoded by TARDBP) in the cytoplasm is a prominent histopathological feature of degenerating neurons in various neurodegenerative diseases. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: However, the molecular mechanisms by which TDP-43 contributes to ALS pathophysiology remain elusive. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Here we have found that TDP-43 accumulates in the mitochondria of neurons in subjects with ALS or frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Disease-associated mutations increase TDP-43 mitochondrial localization. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: In mitochondria, wild-type (WT) and mutant TDP-43 preferentially bind mitochondria-transcribed messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding respiratory complex I subunits ND3 and ND6, impair their expression and specifically cause complex I disassembly. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: The suppression of TDP-43 mitochondrial localization abolishes WT and mutant TDP-43-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal loss, and improves phenotypes of transgenic mutant TDP-43 mice. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Thus, our studies link TDP-43 toxicity directly to mitochondrial bioenergetics and propose the targeting of TDP-43 mitochondrial localization as a promising therapeutic approach for neurodegeneration. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: The fatal adult motor neuron disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) shares some clinical and pathological overlap with frontotemporal dementia (FTD), an early-onset neurodegenerative disorder. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: The RNA/DNA-binding proteins fused in sarcoma (FUS; also known as TLS) and TAR DNA binding protein-43 (TDP-43) have recently been shown to be genetically and pathologically associated with familial forms of ALS and FTD. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: It is currently unknown whether perturbation of these proteins results in disease through mechanisms that are independent of normal protein function or via the pathophysiological disruption of molecular processes in which they are both critical. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Here, we report that Drosophila mutants in which the homolog of FUS is disrupted exhibit decreased adult viability, diminished locomotor speed, and reduced life span compared with controls. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: These phenotypes were fully rescued by wild-type human FUS, but not ALS-associated mutant FUS proteins. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: A mutant of the Drosophila homolog of TDP-43 had similar, but more severe, deficits. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Through cross-rescue analysis, we demonstrated that FUS acted together with and downstream of TDP-43 in a common genetic pathway in neurons. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Furthermore, we found that these proteins associated with each other in an RNA-dependent complex. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Our results establish that FUS and TDP-43 function together in vivo and suggest that molecular pathways requiring the combined activities of both of these proteins may be disrupted in ALS and FTD. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: INTRODUCTION Mutations in the FUS gene have been shown to be a rare cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS-FUS) and whilst well documented clinically and genetically there have been relatively few neuropathological studies. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Recent work suggested a possible correlation between pathological features such as frequency of basophilic inclusions in neurons and rate of clinical decline, other studies have revealed a discrepancy between the upper motor neuron features detected clinically and the associated pathology. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: The purpose of this study was to describe the pathological features associated with more recently discovered FUS mutations and reinvestigate those with well recognised mutations in an attempt to correlate the pathology with mutation and/or clinical phenotype. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: The brains and spinal cords of seven cases of ALS-FUS were examined neuropathologically, including cases with the newly described p. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: K510E mutation and a case with both a known p. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: P525L mutation in the FUS gene and a truncating p. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Y374X mutation in the TARDBP gene. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: RESULTS The neuropathology in all cases revealed basophilic and FUS inclusions in the cord. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: The density and type of inclusions varied markedly between cases, but did not allow a clear correlation with clinical progression. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Only one case showed significant motor cortical pathology despite the upper motor neuron clinical features being evident in 4 patients. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: The case with both a FUS and TARDBP mutation revealed FUS positive inclusions but no TDP-43 pathology. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Instead there were unusual p62 positive, FUS negative neuronal and glial inclusions as well as dot-like neurites. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: CONCLUSIONS The study confirms cases of ALS-FUS to be mainly a lower motor neuron disease and to have pathology that does not appear to neatly correlate with clinical features or genetics. Relevant:
Query: Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. Document: Furthermore, the case with both a FUS and TARDBP mutation reveals an intriguing pathological profile which at least in part involves a very unusual staining pattern for the ubiquitin-binding protein p62. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Leukocyte trafficking between the various body compartments has an important surveillance function that ensures the detection of antigen and enables the immune system to initiate a rapid and effective response. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Repeated social defeat of group-housed male mice induced by daily, acute encounters with an aggressive conspecific substantially altered leukocyte trafficking and led to a gradual redistribution of immune cells in bone marrow, peripheral blood and spleen. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Recurrent exposure to the stressor over a period of 2, 4 or 6 consecutive days was associated with cell mobilization and increased myelopoiesis in the bone marrow that was paralleled by an accumulation of neutrophils and monocytes in circulation and spleen. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Substantial depletion of B cells in bone marrow and blood was associated with an increase in splenic B cells indicating a redirection of this cell type to the spleen. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: In contrast, T cells were markedly reduced in these immune compartments. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: The recruitment of CD11b+ leukocytes (i.e., monocytes/macrophages and neutrophils) from the bone marrow to the spleen might play a critical role in the development of functional glucocorticoid resistance in the murine spleen that was reported in context with repeated social defeat. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: The quiescent state is thought to be an indispensable property for the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Interaction of HSCs with their particular microenvironments, known as the stem cell niches, is critical for adult hematopoiesis in the bone marrow (BM). Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Here, we demonstrate that HSCs expressing the receptor tyrosine kinase Tie2 are quiescent and antiapoptotic, and comprise a side-population (SP) of HSCs, which adhere to osteoblasts (OBs) in the BM niche. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: The interaction of Tie2 with its ligand Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) induced cobblestone formation of HSCs in vitro and maintained in vivo long-term repopulating activity of HSCs. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Furthermore, Ang-1 enhanced the ability of HSCs to become quiescent and induced adhesion to bone, resulting in protection of the HSC compartment from myelosuppressive stress. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: These data suggest that the Tie2/Ang-1 signaling pathway plays a critical role in the maintenance of HSCs in a quiescent state in the BM niche. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Studies of the identity and physiological function of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have been hampered by a lack of markers that permit both prospective identification and fate mapping in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: We found that Leptin Receptor (LepR) is a marker that highly enriches bone marrow MSCs. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Approximately 0.3% of bone marrow cells were LepR(+) Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: , 10% of which were CFU-Fs, accounting for 94% of bone marrow CFU-Fs. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: LepR(+) cells formed bone, cartilage, and adipocytes in culture and upon transplantation in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: LepR(+) cells were Scf-GFP(+), Cxcl12-DsRed(high), and Nestin-GFP(low), markers which also highly enriched CFU-Fs, but negative for Nestin-CreER and NG2-CreER, markers which were unlikely to be found in CFU-Fs. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Fate-mapping showed that LepR(+) cells arose postnatally and gave rise to most bone and adipocytes formed in adult bone marrow, including bone regenerated after irradiation or fracture. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: LepR(+) cells were quiescent, but they proliferated after injury. Relevant:
Query: Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. Document: Therefore, LepR(+) cells are the major source of bone and adipocytes in adult bone marrow. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: PURPOSE Mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes confer greater risk of developing breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: We determined whether tumor pathologic features and clinical features differ in patients with and without BRCA mutations. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: PATIENTS AND METHODS Tumor pathologic features and clinical characteristics were examined in 491 women with breast cancer who underwent genetic testing for BRCA mutations between 1997 and 2006. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: A retrospective review of medical records was conducted to determine clinical characteristics including ethnicity, age and clinical stage at diagnosis, age at parity, number of full-term pregnancies, use of oral contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy, and BRCA mutation status. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Tumor pathology was reviewed to determine histologic type, tumor grade, and estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and HER-2/neu status. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: RESULTS Of the 491 patients with identified breast cancers, 391 patients were BRCA negative, and 86 patients were BRCA positive. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Triple-negative breast cancer (ie, those with negative estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and HER-2/neu status) was diagnosed in 57.1% of the BRCA1-positive patients, 23.3% of the BRCA2-positive patients, and 13.8% of the BRCA-negative patients. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: BRCA1 mutation carriers had higher nuclear grade tumors than the other two groups (P < .001). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Of the triple-negative cancer patients, BRCA2 mutation carriers were older when diagnosed than BRCA1 mutation carriers and noncarriers (P < .01). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: CONCLUSION These results suggest that tumors associated with BRCA1 mutations may be divided into two distinct groups, triple-negative and non-triple-negative groups. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Future studies should seek to determine whether patients with BRCA1 mutations and triple-negative breast cancer respond to treatment better than BRCA-negative patients with similar tumor pathology. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: BACKGROUND Emerging evidence suggests an association between female prenatal experience and her subsequent risk of developing breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Potential underlying mechanisms include variation in amounts of maternal endogenous sex hormones and growth hormones, germ-cell mutations, formation of cancer stem-cells, and other genetic or epigenetic events. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: We reviewed and summarised quantitatively the available data on intrauterine exposures and risk of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: METHODS We systematically searched for studies that assessed association between perinatal factors and risk of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: We reviewed separately each of the perinatal factors, including birthweight, birth length, parental age at delivery, gestational age, intrauterine exposure to diethylstilbestrol, twin membership, maternal pre-eclampsia or eclampsia, and other factors. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: FINDINGS We identified 57 studies published between Oct 1, 1980, and June 21, 2007. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Increased risk of breast cancer was noted with increased birthweight (relative risk [RR] 1.15 [95% CI 1.09-1.21]), birth length (1.28 [1.11-1.48]), higher maternal age (1.13 [1.02-1.25]), and paternal age (1.12 [1.05-1.19]). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Decreased risk of breast cancer was noted for maternal pre-eclampsia and eclampsia (0.48 [0.30-0.78]) and twin membership (0.93 [0.87-1.00]). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: No association was noted between risk of breast cancer and gestational age at birth (0.95 [0.71-1.26]) or maternal diethylstilbestrol treatment (1.40 [0.86-2.28]). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: INTERPRETATION The intrauterine environment contributes to the predisposition of women to breast cancer in adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: The in-utero mechanisms responsible for such predisposition need to be elucidated. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: BACKGROUND Information is scarce about the combined effects on breast cancer incidence of low-penetrance genetic susceptibility polymorphisms and environmental factors (reproductive, behavioural, and anthropometric risk factors for breast cancer). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: To test for evidence of gene-environment interactions, we compared genotypic relative risks for breast cancer across the other risk factors in a large UK prospective study. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: METHODS We tested gene-environment interactions in 7610 women who developed breast cancer and 10 196 controls without the disease, studying the effects of 12 polymorphisms (FGFR2-rs2981582, TNRC9-rs3803662, 2q35-rs13387042, MAP3K1-rs889312, 8q24-rs13281615, 2p-rs4666451, 5p12-rs981782, CASP8-rs1045485, LSP1-rs3817198, 5q-rs30099, TGFB1-rs1982073, and ATM-rs1800054) in relation to prospectively collected information about ten established environmental risk factors (age at menarche, parity, age at first birth, breastfeeding, menopausal status, age at menopause, use of hormone replacement therapy, body-mass index, height, and alcohol consumption). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: FINDINGS After allowance for multiple testing none of the 120 comparisons yielded significant evidence of a gene-environment interaction. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: By contrast with previous suggestions, there was little evidence that the genotypic relative risks were affected by use of hormone replacement therapy, either overall or for oestrogen-receptor-positive disease. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: Only one of the 12 polymorphisms was correlated with any of the ten other risk factors: carriers of the high-risk C allele of MAP3K1-rs889312 were significantly shorter than non-carriers (mean height 162.4 cm [95% CI 162.1-162.7] vs 163.1 cm [162.9-163.2]; p=0.01 after allowance for multiple testing). Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: INTERPRETATION Risks of breast cancer associated with low-penetrance susceptibility polymorphisms do not vary significantly with these ten established environmental risk factors. Relevant:
Query: Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. Document: FUNDING Cancer Research UK and the UK Medical Research Council. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: The pro-drug FTY720 is undergoing phase III clinical trials for prevention of allograft rejection. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: After phosphorylation, FTY720 targets the G protein-coupled-sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1) on lymphocytes, thereby inhibiting their egress from lymphoid organs and their recirculation to inflammatory sites. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Potential effects on dendritic cell (DC) trafficking have not been evaluated. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Here, we demonstrate the expression of all five S1PR subtypes (S1PR1-5) by murine DCs. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Administration of FTY720 to C57BL/10 mice markedly reduced circulating T and B lymphocytes within 24 h, but not blood-borne DCs, which were enhanced significantly for up to 96 h, while DCs in lymph nodes and spleen were reduced. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Numbers of adoptively transferred, fluorochrome-labeled syngeneic or allogeneic DCs in blood were increased significantly in FTY720-treated animals, while donor-derived DCs and allostimulatory activity for host naïve T cells within the spleen were reduced. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Administration of the selective S1PR1 agonist SEW2871 significantly enhanced circulating DC numbers. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Flow analysis revealed that CD11b, CD31/PECAM-1, CD54/ICAM-1 and CCR7 expression on blood-borne DCs was downregulated following FTY720 administration. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Transendothelial migration of FTY720-P-treated immature DCs to the CCR7 ligand CCL19 was reduced. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: These novel data suggest that modulation of DC trafficking by FTY720 may contribute to its immunosuppressive effects. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Chemokines orchestrate immune cell trafficking by eliciting either directed or random migration and by activating integrins in order to induce cell adhesion. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Analyzing dendritic cell (DC) migration, we showed that these distinct cellular responses depended on the mode of chemokine presentation within tissues. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: The surface-immobilized form of the chemokine CCL21, the heparan sulfate-anchoring ligand of the CC-chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7), caused random movement of DCs that was confined to the chemokine-presenting surface because it triggered integrin-mediated adhesion. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Upon direct contact with CCL21, DCs truncated the anchoring residues of CCL21, thereby releasing it from the solid phase. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Soluble CCL21 functionally resembles the second CCR7 ligand, CCL19, which lacks anchoring residues and forms soluble gradients. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Both soluble CCR7 ligands triggered chemotactic movement, but not surface adhesion. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Adhesive random migration and directional steering cooperate to produce dynamic but spatially restricted locomotion patterns closely resembling the cellular dynamics observed in secondary lymphoid organs. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Chemokine-like receptor 1 (CMKLR1), also known as ChemR23, and chemokine (C-C motif) receptor-like 2 (CCRL2) are 7-transmembrane receptors that were cloned in the late 1990s based on their homology to known G-protein-coupled receptors. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: They were previously orphan receptors without any known biological roles; however, recent studies identified ligands for these receptors and their functions have begun to be unveiled. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: The plasma protein-derived chemoattractant chemerin is a ligand for CMKLR1 and activation of CMKLR1 with chemerin induces the migration of macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs) in vitro, suggesting a proinflammatory role. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: However, in vivo studies using CMKLR-deficient mice suggest an anti-inflammatory role for this receptor, possibly due to the recruitment of tolerogenic plasmacytoid DCs. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Chemerin/CMKLR1 interaction also promotes adipogenesis and angiogenesis. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: The anti-inflammatory lipid mediator, resolving E1, is another CMKLR1 ligand and it inhibits leukocyte infiltration and proinflammatory gene expression. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: These divergent results suggest that CMKLR1 is a multifunctional receptor. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: The chemokine CCL5 and CCL19 are reported to bind to CCRL2. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Like Duffy antigen for chemokine receptor (DARC), D6 and CCX-CKR, CCRL2 does not signal, but it constitutively recycles, potentially reducing local concentration of CCL5 and CCL19 and subsequent immune responses. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Surprisingly, chemerin, a ligand for CMKLR1, is a ligand for CCRL2. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: CCRL2 binds chemerin and increases local chemerin concentration to efficiently present it to CMKLR1 on nearby cells, providing a link between CCRL2 and CMKLR1. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Although these findings suggest an anti-inflammatory role, a recent study using CCRL2-deficient mice indicates a proinflammatory role; thus, CCRL2 may also be multifunctional. Relevant:
Query: CCL19 is absent within dLNs. Document: Further studies using CMKLR1- or CCRL2-deficient mice are needed to further define the role of these receptors in immune responses and other cellular processes. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Background Checkpoint kinase 2 (CHEK2) averts cancer development by promoting cell cycle arrest and activating DNA repair in genetically damaged cells. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Previous investigation has established a role for the CHEK2 gene in breast cancer aetiology, but studies have largely been limited to the rare 1100delC mutation. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Whether common polymorphisms in this gene influence breast cancer risk remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: In this study, we aimed to assess the importance of common CHEK2 variants on population risk for breast cancer by capturing the majority of diversity in the gene using haplotype tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (tagSNPs). Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Methods and Findings We analyzed 14 common SNPs spanning 52 kilobases (kb) of the CHEK2 gene in 92 Swedish women. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Coverage evaluation indicated that these typed SNPs would efficiently convey association signal also from untyped SNPs in the same region. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Six of the 14 SNPs predicted well both the haplotypic and single SNP variations within CHEK2. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: We genotyped these six tagSNPs in 1,577 postmenopausal breast cancer cases and 1,513 population controls, but found no convincing association between any common CHEK2 haplotype and breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: The 1100delC mutation was rare in our Swedish population—0.7% in cases and 0.4% in controls— with a corresponding odds ratio for carriers versus noncarriers of 2.26 (95% confidence interval, 0.99–5.15). Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Estimates of the population frequency and the odds ratio of 1100delC indicate that our sample is representative of a Northern European population. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: BACKGROUND Lobular involution, or age-related atrophy of breast lobules, is inversely associated with breast cancer risk, and mammographic breast density (MBD) is positively associated with breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: METHODS To evaluate whether lobular involution and MBD are independently associated with breast cancer risk in women with benign breast disease, we performed a nested cohort study among women (n = 2666) with benign breast disease diagnosed at Mayo Clinic between January 1, 1985, and December 31, 1991 and a mammogram available within 6 months of the diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Women were followed up for an average of 13.3 years to document any breast cancer incidence. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Lobular involution was categorized as none, partial, or complete; parenchymal pattern was classified using the Wolfe classification as N1 (nondense), P1, P2 (ductal prominence occupying <25%, or >25% of the breast, respectively), or DY (extremely dense). Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) to assess associations of lobular involution and MBD with breast cancer risk were estimated using adjusted Cox proportional hazards model. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: All tests of statistical significance were two-sided. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: RESULTS After adjustment for MBD, having no or partial lobular involution was associated with a higher risk of breast cancer than having complete involution (none: HR of breast cancer incidence = 2.62, 95% CI = 1.39 to 4.94; partial: HR of breast cancer incidence = 1.61, 95% CI = 1.03 to 2.53; P(trend) = .002). Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Similarly, after adjustment for involution, having dense breasts was associated with higher risk of breast cancer than having nondense breasts (for DY: HR of breast cancer incidence = 1.67, 95% CI = 1.03 to 2.73; for P2: HR of breast cancer incidence = 1.96, 95% CI = 1.20 to 3.21; for P1: HR of breast cancer incidence = 1.23, 95% CI = 0.67 to 2.26; P(trend) = .02). Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Having a combination of no involution and dense breasts was associated with higher risk of breast cancer than having complete involution and nondense breasts (HR of breast cancer incidence = 4.08, 95% CI = 1.72 to 9.68; P = .006). Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: CONCLUSION Lobular involution and MBD are independently associated with breast cancer incidence; combined, they are associated with an even greater risk for breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Incidences of breast cancer, type 2 diabetes, and metabolic syndrome have increased over the past decades with the obesity epidemic, especially in industrialized countries. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and changes in the signaling of growth hormones and steroid hormones associated with diabetes may affect the risk of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: We reviewed epidemiologic studies of the association between type 2 diabetes and risk of breast cancer and the available evidence on the role of hormonal mediators of an association between diabetes and breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: The combined evidence supports a modest association between type 2 diabetes and the risk of breast cancer, which appears to be more consistent among postmenopausal than among premenopausal women. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Despite many proposed potential pathways, the mechanisms underlying an association between diabetes and breast cancer risk remain unclear, particularly because the 2 diseases share several risk factors, including obesity, a sedentary lifestyle, and possibly intake of saturated fat and refined carbohydrates, that may confound this association. Relevant:
Query: CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. Document: Although the metabolic syndrome is closely related to diabetes and embraces additional components that might influence breast cancer risk, the role of the metabolic syndrome in breast carcinogenesis has not been studied and thus remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: The sirtuins are a phylogenetically conserved family of NAD(+) -dependent protein deacetylases that consume one molecule of NAD(+) for every deacetylated lysine side chain. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Their requirement for NAD(+) potentially makes them prone to regulation by fluctuations in NAD(+) or biosynthesis intermediates, thus linking them to cellular metabolism. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: The Sir2 protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the founding sirtuin family member and has been well characterized as a histone deacetylase that functions in transcriptional silencing of heterochromatin domains and as a pro-longevity factor for replicative life span (RLS), defined as the number of times a mother cell divides (buds) before senescing. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Deleting SIR2 shortens RLS, while increased gene dosage causes extension. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Furthermore, Sir2 has been implicated in mediating the beneficial effects of caloric restriction (CR) on life span, not only in yeast, but also in higher eukaryotes. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: While this paradigm has had its share of disagreements and debate, it has also helped rapidly drive the aging research field forward. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: S. cerevisiae has four additional sirtuins, Hst1, Hst2, Hst3, and Hst4. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: This review discusses the function of Sir2 and the Hst homologs in replicative aging and chronological aging, and also addresses how the sirtuins are regulated in response to environmental stresses such as CR. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Reduced dietary methionine intake (0.17% methionine, MR) and calorie restriction (CR) prolong lifespan in male Fischer 344 rats. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Although the mechanisms are unclear, both regimens feature lower body weight and reductions in adiposity. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Reduced fat deposition in CR is linked to preservation of insulin responsiveness in older animals. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: These studies examine the relationship between insulin responsiveness and visceral fat in MR and test whether, despite lower food intake observed in MR animals, decreased visceral fat accretion and preservation of insulin sensitivity is not secondary to CR. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Accordingly, rats pair fed (pf) control diet (0.86% methinone, CF) to match the food intake of MR for 80 weeks exhibit insulin, glucose, and leptin levels similar to control-fed animals and comparable amounts of visceral fat. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Conversely, MR rats show significantly reduced visceral fat compared to CF and PF with concomitant decreases in basal insulin, glucose, and leptin, and increased adiponectin and triiodothyronine. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Daily energy expenditure in MR animals significantly exceeds that of both PF and CF. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: In a separate cohort, insulin responses of older MR animals as measured by oral glucose challenge are similar to young animals. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Longitudinal assessments of MR and CF through 112 weeks of age reveal that MR prevents age-associated increases in serum lipids. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: By 16 weeks, MR animals show a 40% reduction in insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) that is sustained throughout life; CF IGF-1 levels decline much later, beginning at 112 weeks. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Collectively, the results indicate that MR reduces visceral fat and preserves insulin activity in aging rats independent of energy restriction. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: RATIONALE Exposure to particulate air pollution has been related to increased hospitalization and death, particularly from cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Lower blood DNA methylation content is found in processes related to cardiovascular outcomes, such as oxidative stress, aging, and atherosclerosis. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: OBJECTIVES We evaluated whether particulate pollution modifies DNA methylation in heavily methylated sequences with high representation throughout the human genome. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: METHODS We measured DNA methylation of long interspersed nucleotide element (LINE)-1 and Alu repetitive elements by quantitative polymerase chain reaction-pyrosequencing of 1,097 blood samples from 718 elderly participants in the Boston area Normative Aging Study. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: We used covariate-adjusted mixed models to account for within-subject correlation in repeated measures. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: We estimated the effects on DNA methylation of ambient particulate pollutants (black carbon, particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter < or = 2.5 microm [PM2.5], or sulfate) in multiple time windows (4 h to 7 d) before the examination. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: We estimated standardized regression coefficients (beta) expressing the fraction of a standard deviation change in DNA methylation associated with a standard deviation increase in exposure. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Repetitive element DNA methylation varied in association with time-related variables, such as day of the week and season. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: LINE-1 methylation decreased after recent exposure to higher black carbon (beta = -0.11; 95% confidence interval [CI], -0.18 to -0.04; P = 0.002) and PM2.5 (beta = -0.13; 95% CI, -0.19 to -0.06; P < 0.001 for the 7-d moving average). Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: In two-pollutant models, only black carbon, a tracer of traffic particles, was significantly associated with LINE-1 methylation (beta = -0.09; 95% CI, -0.17 to -0.01; P = 0.03). Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: No association was found with Alu methylation (P > 0.12). Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: CONCLUSIONS We found decreased repeated-element methylation after exposure to traffic particles. Relevant:
Query: CR is associated with higher methylation age. Document: Whether decreased methylation mediates exposure-related health effects remains to be determined. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: BACKGROUND Preoperative C-reactive protein (CRP) levels more than 10 mg/l have been shown to be associated with increased morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgery. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: We examine the value of preoperative CRP levels less than 10 mg/l for predicting long-term, all-cause mortality and hospital length of stay in surgical patients undergoing primary, nonemergent coronary artery bypass graft-only surgery. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: METHODS We examined the association between preoperative CRP levels stratified into four categories (< 1, 1-3, 3-10, and > 10 mg/l), and 7-yr all-cause mortality and hospital length of stay in 914 prospectively enrolled primary, nonemergent coronary artery bypass graft-only surgical patients using a proportional hazards regression model. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: RESULTS Eighty-seven patients (9.5%) died during a mean follow-up period of 4.8 +/- Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: 1.5 yr. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: After proportional hazards adjustment, the 3-10 and > 10 mg/l preoperative CRP groups were associated with long-term, all-cause mortality (hazards ratios [95% CI]: 2.50 [1.22-5.16], P = 0.01 and 2.66 [1.21-5.80], P = 0.02, respectively) and extended hospital length of stay (1.32 [1.07-1.63], P < 0.001 and 1.27 [1.02-1.62], P = 0.001, respectively). Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: CONCLUSION We demonstrate that preoperative CRP levels as low as 3 mg/l are associated with increased long-term mortality and extended hospital length of stay in relatively lower-acuity patients undergoing primary, nonemergent coronary artery bypass graft-only surgery. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: These important findings may allow for more objective risk stratification of patients who present for uncomplicated surgical coronary revascularization. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine if preoperative statin treatment is associated with a reduction in systemic inflammatory response (SIR) and myocardial damage markers following cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: METHODS We study a prospective cohort of 138 patients who underwent coronary and valvular surgery with CPB. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: We differentiate two study groups: patients with (group A, n=72) or without (group B, n=66) statins. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: Plasma levels of pro-inflammatory interleukins (tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8 and IL-2R), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), CPK-MB and troponin I were measured before and 1, 6, 24 and >72 h after surgery. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: RESULTS The baseline, operative and postoperative morbidity and mortality characteristics were similar for both the groups. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: Group A had significantly lower postoperative levels of IL-6 than group B at 6h (68.8+/-5 pg ml(-1) vs 108.9+/-108 pg ml(-1), p=0.01), 24h (71.7+/-7 pg ml(-1) vs 110.4+/-106 pg ml(-1), p=0.01) and before hospital discharge (21.6+/-12 pg ml(-1) vs 32.8+/-27 pg ml(-1), p=0.005), as well as significantly lower average IL-6 levels in the first 24h following surgery (71.8+/-5 pgml(-1) vs 112.8+/-82 pg ml(-1), p=0.002). Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: The postoperative CPK-MB at 24h (19.7+/-23 ng ml(-1) vs 33.1+/-32 ng ml(-1), p=0.02) and troponin I levels at the end of the intervention (2.2+/-2.2 ng ml(-1) vs 3.3+/-3.1 ng ml(-1), p=0.03) and at 24h (4.1+/-3.5 ng ml(-1) vs 6.6+/-8 ng ml(-1), p=0.04) were also significantly lower in the group treated with statins prior to surgery. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: CONCLUSIONS Preoperative treatment with statins is associated with a lower biochemical parameters of SIR and myocardial damage following cardiac surgery with CPB, regardless of it being coronary bypass grafting (CABG) or valvular surgery. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: BACKGROUND Acute kidney injury (AKI) after cardiac surgery is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: METHODS We assessed whether statin treatment is associated with a lower incidence of postoperative AKI in 2,104 consecutive patients who underwent coronary artery bypass graft or valve surgery at the Minneapolis Veterans Administration Medical Center. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: Acute kidney injury was defined as absolute increase greater than 0.3 mg/dL or relative increase greater than 50% in serum creatinine from baseline, within 48 hours after surgery or requiring postoperative hemodialysis per AKI network. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: Propensity scores were utilized to adjust for the differences between the statin and the no-statin treatment groups. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: All statins were converted to equivalent-dose simvastatin and divided at the median to construct high-dose (≥40 mg) and low-dose (<40 mg) statin groups. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: RESULTS Of the 2,104 patients, 1,435 (68%) were taking statins (638 high-dose) and 495 (24%) developed AKI (25% high-dose vs 40% low-dose vs 35% no-statin; p = 0.014). Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: Estimated preoperative glomerular filtration rate (p = 0.003), diabetes mellitus (p=0.02), valve surgery with or without coronary artery bypass graft (p = 0.024), cardiopulmonary bypass time (p = 0.001), and intraaortic balloon pump (p = 0.055) were independent predictors of AKI. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: After propensity adjustment statin treatment was not associated with postoperative AKI (odds ratio 0.79; 95% confidence interval 0.59 to 1.06; p = 0.11 for high-dose v. no-statin). Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: After full adjustment for all independent predictors of AKI, the results did not change. Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: Statins also had no effect on the incidence of postoperative hemodialysis (0.8% high-dose vs 1.9% low-dose vs 1% no-statin; p = 0.15). Relevant:
Query: CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Document: CONCLUSIONS Statin treatment is not associated with a lower incidence of AKI after cardiac surgery. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Allergic asthma is a T helper type 2 (T(H)2)-dominated disease of the lung. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: In people with asthma, a fraction of CD4(+) T cells express the CX3CL1 receptor, CX3CR1, and CX3CL1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Here we found that untreated CX3CR1-deficient mice or wild-type (WT) mice treated with CX3CR1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Transfer of WT CD4(+) T cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and CX3CR1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in CX3CR1-deficient recipients injected with WT T(H)2 cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: We found that CX3CR1 signaling promoted T(H)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of B cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (BCl-2)-transduced CX3CR1-deficient T(H)2 cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: CX3CR1-induced survival was also observed for T(H)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Therefore, CX3CR1 and CX3CL1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: OBJECTIVE T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain (Tim) proteins are expressed by numerous immune cells, recognize phosphatidylserine on apoptotic cells, and function as costimulators or coinhibitors. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Tim-1 is expressed by activated T cells but is also found on dendritic cells and B cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Tim-4, present on macrophages and dendritic cells, plays a critical role in apoptotic cell clearance, regulates the number of phosphatidylserine-expressing activated T cells, and is genetically associated with low low-density lipoprotein and triglyceride levels. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Because these functions of Tim-1 and Tim-4 could affect atherosclerosis, their modulation has potential therapeutic value in cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: APPROACH AND RESULTS ldlr(-/-) mice were fed a high-fat diet for 4 weeks while being treated with control (rat immunoglobulin G1) or anti-Tim-1 (3D10) or -Tim-4 (21H12) monoclonal antibodies that block phosphatidylserine recognition and phagocytosis. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Both anti-Tim-1 and anti-Tim-4 treatments enhanced atherosclerosis by 45% compared with controls by impairment of efferocytosis and increasing aortic CD4(+)T cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Consistently, anti-Tim-4-treated mice showed increased percentages of activated T cells and late apoptotic cells in the circulation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Moreover, in vitro blockade of Tim-4 inhibited efferocytosis of oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced apoptotic macrophages. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Although anti-Tim-4 treatment increased T helper cell (Th)1 and Th2 responses, anti-Tim-1 induced Th2 responses but dramatically reduced the percentage of regulatory T cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Finally, combined blockade of Tim-1 and Tim-4 increased atherosclerotic lesion size by 59%. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: CONCLUSIONS Blockade of Tim-4 aggravates atherosclerosis likely by prevention of phagocytosis of phosphatidylserine-expressing apoptotic cells and activated T cells by Tim-4-expressing cells, whereas Tim-1-associated effects on atherosclerosis are related to changes in Th1/Th2 balance and reduced circulating regulatory T cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: T cell-specific deletion of Blimp-1 causes abnormal T cell homeostasis and function, leading to spontaneous, fatal colitis in mice. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Herein we explore the role of Blimp-1 in Th1/Th2 differentiation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Blimp-1 mRNA and protein are more highly expressed in Th2 cells compared with Th1 cells, and Blimp-1 attenuates IFN-gamma production in CD4 cells activated under nonpolarizing conditions. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Although Blimp-1-deficient T cells differentiate normally to Th2 cytokines in vitro, Blimp-1 is required in vivo for normal Th2 humoral responses to NP-KLH (4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenylacetyl/keyhole lymphocyte hemocyanin) immunization. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Lack of Blimp-1 in CD4 T cells causes increased IFN-gamma, T-bet, and Bcl-6 mRNA. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: By chromatin immunoprecipitation we show that Blimp-1 binds directly to a distal regulatory region in the ifng gene and at multiple sites in tbx21 and bcl6 genes. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival Document: Our data provide evidence that Blimp-1 functions in Th2 cells to reinforce Th2 differentiation by repressing critical Th1 genes. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Allergic asthma is a T helper type 2 (T(H)2)-dominated disease of the lung. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: In people with asthma, a fraction of CD4(+) T cells express the CX3CL1 receptor, CX3CR1, and CX3CL1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Here we found that untreated CX3CR1-deficient mice or wild-type (WT) mice treated with CX3CR1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Transfer of WT CD4(+) T cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and CX3CR1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in CX3CR1-deficient recipients injected with WT T(H)2 cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: We found that CX3CR1 signaling promoted T(H)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of B cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (BCl-2)-transduced CX3CR1-deficient T(H)2 cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: CX3CR1-induced survival was also observed for T(H)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Therefore, CX3CR1 and CX3CL1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: The molecular basis for the distinctive cytokine expression of CD4+ T helper 1 (Th1) and T helper 2 (Th2) subsets remains elusive. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Here, we report that the proto-oncogene c-maf, a basic region/leucine zipper transcription factor, controls tissue-specific expression of IL-4. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: c-Maf is expressed in Th2 but not Th1 clones and is induced during normal precursor cell differentiation along a Th2 but not Th1 lineage. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: c-Maf binds to a c-Maf response element (MARE) in the proximal IL-4 promoter adjacent to a site footprinted by extracts from Th2 but not Th1 clones. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Ectopic expression of c-Maf transactivates the IL-4 promoter in Th1 cells, B cells, and nonlymphoid cells, a function that maps to the MARE and Th2-specific footprint. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Furthermore, c-Maf acts in synergy with the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NF-ATp) to initiate endogeneous IL-4 production by B cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Manipulation of c-Maf may alter Th subset ratios in human disease. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (T regs) play a major role in the maintenance of self-tolerance and immune suppression, although the mechanisms controlling T reg development and suppressor function remain incompletely understood. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Herein, we provide evidence that Kruppel-like factor 10 (KLF10/TIEG1) constitutes an important regulator of T regulatory cell suppressor function and CD4(+)CD25(-) T cell activation through distinct mechanisms involving transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and Foxp3. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: KLF10 overexpressing CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells induced both TGF-beta1 and Foxp3 expression, an effect associated with reduced T-Bet (Th1 marker) and Gata3 (Th2 marker) mRNA expression. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Consistently, KLF10(-/-) CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells have enhanced differentiation along both Th1 and Th2 pathways and elaborate higher levels of Th1 and Th2 cytokines. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Furthermore, KLF10(-/-) CD4(+)CD25(-) T cell effectors cannot be appropriately suppressed by wild-type T regs. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Surprisingly, KLF10(-/-) T reg cells have reduced suppressor function, independent of Foxp3 expression, with decreased expression and elaboration of TGF-beta1, an effect completely rescued by exogenous treatment with TGF-beta1. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Mechanistic studies demonstrate that in response to TGF-beta1, KLF10 can transactivate both TGF-beta1 and Foxp3 promoters, implicating KLF10 in a positive feedback loop that may promote cell-intrinsic control of T cell activation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Finally, KLF10(-/-) CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells promoted atherosclerosis by approximately 2-fold in ApoE(-/-)/scid/scid mice with increased leukocyte accumulation and peripheral pro-inflammatory cytokines. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival Document: Thus, KLF10 is a critical regulator in the transcriptional network controlling TGF-beta1 in both CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells and T regs and plays an important role in regulating atherosclerotic lesion formation in mice. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Allergic asthma is a T helper type 2 (T(H)2)-dominated disease of the lung. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: In people with asthma, a fraction of CD4(+) T cells express the CX3CL1 receptor, CX3CR1, and CX3CL1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Here we found that untreated CX3CR1-deficient mice or wild-type (WT) mice treated with CX3CR1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Transfer of WT CD4(+) T cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and CX3CR1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in CX3CR1-deficient recipients injected with WT T(H)2 cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: We found that CX3CR1 signaling promoted T(H)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of B cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (BCl-2)-transduced CX3CR1-deficient T(H)2 cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: CX3CR1-induced survival was also observed for T(H)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Therefore, CX3CR1 and CX3CL1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Cellular therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected cytotoxic T cells has shown impressive efficacy in the treatment of hematologic malignancies. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: We explored a regulatory T cell (Treg)-based therapy in the treatment of allergic airway inflammation, a model for asthma, which is characterized by an airway hyper-reactivity (AHR) and a chronic, T helper-2 (Th2) cell-dominated immune response to allergen. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: To restore the immune balance in the lung, we redirected Tregs by a CAR toward lung epithelia in mice upon experimentally induced allergic asthma, closely mimicking the clinical situation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Adoptively transferred CAR Tregs accumulated in the lung and in tracheobronchial lymph nodes, reduced AHR and diminished eosinophilic airway inflammation, indicated by lower cell numbers in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and decreased cell infiltrates in the lung. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: CAR Treg cells furthermore prevented excessive pulmonary mucus production as well as increase in allergen-specific IgE and Th2 cytokine levels in exposed animals. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: CAR Tregs were more efficient in controlling asthma than non-modified Tregs, indicating the pivotal role of specific Treg cell activation in the affected organ. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Data demonstrate that lung targeting CAR Treg cells ameliorate key features of experimental airway inflammation, paving the way for cell therapy of severe allergic asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Dendritic cells (DCs) are crucial for mounting allergic airway inflammation, but it is unclear which subset of DCs performs this task. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: By using CD64 and MAR-1 staining, we reliably separated CD11b(+) monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs) from conventional DCs (cDCs) and studied antigen uptake, migration, and presentation assays of lung and lymph node (LN) DCs in response to inhaled house dust mite (HDM). Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Mainly CD11b(+) cDCs but not CD103(+) cDCs induced T helper 2 (Th2) cell immunity in HDM-specific T cells in vitro and asthma in vivo. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Studies in Flt3l(-/-) mice, lacking all cDCs, revealed that moDCs were also sufficient to induce Th2 cell-mediated immunity but only when high-dose HDM was given. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: The main function of moDCs was the production of proinflammatory chemokines and allergen presentation in the lung during challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. Document: Thus, we have identified migratory CD11b(+) cDCs as the principal subset inducing Th2 cell-mediated immunity in the LN, whereas moDCs orchestrate allergic inflammation in the lung. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Allergic asthma is a T helper type 2 (T(H)2)-dominated disease of the lung. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: In people with asthma, a fraction of CD4(+) T cells express the CX3CL1 receptor, CX3CR1, and CX3CL1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Here we found that untreated CX3CR1-deficient mice or wild-type (WT) mice treated with CX3CR1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Transfer of WT CD4(+) T cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and CX3CR1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in CX3CR1-deficient recipients injected with WT T(H)2 cells. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: We found that CX3CR1 signaling promoted T(H)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of B cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (BCl-2)-transduced CX3CR1-deficient T(H)2 cells into CX3CR1-deficient mice restored asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: CX3CR1-induced survival was also observed for T(H)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Therefore, CX3CR1 and CX3CL1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Cellular therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected cytotoxic T cells has shown impressive efficacy in the treatment of hematologic malignancies. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: We explored a regulatory T cell (Treg)-based therapy in the treatment of allergic airway inflammation, a model for asthma, which is characterized by an airway hyper-reactivity (AHR) and a chronic, T helper-2 (Th2) cell-dominated immune response to allergen. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: To restore the immune balance in the lung, we redirected Tregs by a CAR toward lung epithelia in mice upon experimentally induced allergic asthma, closely mimicking the clinical situation. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Adoptively transferred CAR Tregs accumulated in the lung and in tracheobronchial lymph nodes, reduced AHR and diminished eosinophilic airway inflammation, indicated by lower cell numbers in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and decreased cell infiltrates in the lung. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: CAR Treg cells furthermore prevented excessive pulmonary mucus production as well as increase in allergen-specific IgE and Th2 cytokine levels in exposed animals. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: CAR Tregs were more efficient in controlling asthma than non-modified Tregs, indicating the pivotal role of specific Treg cell activation in the affected organ. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Data demonstrate that lung targeting CAR Treg cells ameliorate key features of experimental airway inflammation, paving the way for cell therapy of severe allergic asthma. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Dendritic cells (DCs) are crucial for mounting allergic airway inflammation, but it is unclear which subset of DCs performs this task. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: By using CD64 and MAR-1 staining, we reliably separated CD11b(+) monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs) from conventional DCs (cDCs) and studied antigen uptake, migration, and presentation assays of lung and lymph node (LN) DCs in response to inhaled house dust mite (HDM). Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Mainly CD11b(+) cDCs but not CD103(+) cDCs induced T helper 2 (Th2) cell immunity in HDM-specific T cells in vitro and asthma in vivo. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Studies in Flt3l(-/-) mice, lacking all cDCs, revealed that moDCs were also sufficient to induce Th2 cell-mediated immunity but only when high-dose HDM was given. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: The main function of moDCs was the production of proinflammatory chemokines and allergen presentation in the lung during challenge. Relevant:
Query: CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. Document: Thus, we have identified migratory CD11b(+) cDCs as the principal subset inducing Th2 cell-mediated immunity in the LN, whereas moDCs orchestrate allergic inflammation in the lung. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: BACKGROUND Alcohol has been reported to be a common and modifiable risk factor for hypertension. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: However, observational studies are subject to confounding by other behavioural and sociodemographic factors, while clinical trials are difficult to implement and have limited follow-up time. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: Mendelian randomization can provide robust evidence on the nature of this association by use of a common polymorphism in aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) as a surrogate for measuring alcohol consumption. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: ALDH2 encodes a major enzyme involved in alcohol metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: Individuals homozygous for the null variant (*2*2) experience adverse symptoms when drinking alcohol and consequently drink considerably less alcohol than wild-type homozygotes (*1*1) or heterozygotes. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: We hypothesise that this polymorphism may influence the risk of hypertension by affecting alcohol drinking behaviour. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS We carried out fixed effect meta-analyses of the ALDH2 genotype with blood pressure (five studies, n = 7,658) and hypertension (three studies, n = 4,219) using studies identified via systematic review. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: In males, we obtained an overall odds ratio of 2.42 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.66-3.55, p = 4.8 x 10(-6)) for hypertension comparing *1*1 with *2*2 homozygotes and an odds ratio of 1.72 (95% CI 1.17-2.52, p = 0.006) comparing heterozygotes (surrogate for moderate drinkers) with *2*2 homozygotes. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: Systolic blood pressure was 7.44 mmHg (95% CI 5.39-9.49, p = 1.1 x 10(-12)) greater among *1*1 than among *2*2 homozygotes, and 4.24 mmHg (95% CI 2.18-6.31, p = 0.00005) greater among heterozygotes than among *2*2 homozygotes. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: CONCLUSIONS These findings support the hypothesis that alcohol intake has a marked effect on blood pressure and the risk of hypertension. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: Fumarase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism of the Krebs Tricarboxylic Acid cycle. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: A heavy neurological disease burden is imparted by fumarase deficiency, commonly manifesting as microcephaly, dystonia, global developmental delay, seizures, and lethality in the infantile period. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: Heterozygous carriers also carry an increased risk of developing hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: We describe a non-consanguineous family in whom a dichorionic diamniotic twin pregnancy resulted in twin boys with fumarase deficiency proven at the biochemical, enzymatic, and molecular levels. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: Their clinical phenotype included hepatic involvement. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: A novel mutation in the fumarate hydratase gene was identified in this family. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: OBJECTIVE To quantify the effects of quantity and frequency of alcohol consumption on risk of acute myocardial infarction and coronary death. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: DESIGN Case-control study. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: SETTING Lower Hunter region of New South Wales, Australia, 1983-94. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: SUBJECTS Men and women aged 35-69 years. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Acute myocardial infarction or coronary death. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: RESULTS Alcohol consumption patterns were compared between 11,511 cases of acute myocardial infarction or coronary death and 6077 controls randomly selected from the same study population. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: After adjusting for the effects of age, smoking, and medical history, men and women who consumed one or two drinks of alcohol on five or six days a week had a reduction in risk of a major coronary event compared with men and women who were non-drinkers (odds ratios: men 0.31 (95% confidence interval 0.22 to 0.45); women 0.33 (0.18 to 0.59)). Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: A similar reduction in risk was found after excluding non-drinkers who were formerly moderate to heavy drinkers. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: An acute protective effect of alcohol consumption was also found for regular drinkers who consumed one or two drinks in the 24 hours preceding the onset of symptoms (odds ratios: men 0.74 (0.51 to 1.09); women 0.43 (0.20 to 0.95)). Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: CONCLUSIONS Frequency and quantity of alcohol consumption are important in assessing the risk of a major coronary event. Relevant:
Query: Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. Document: Risk is lowest among men who report one to four drinks daily on five or six days a week and among women who report one or two drinks daily on five or six days a week. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: BACKGROUND Blindness due to trachoma is avoidable through Surgery, Antibiotics, Facial hygiene and Environmental improvements (SAFE). Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Recent surveys have shown trachoma to be a serious cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: We conducted this survey in Ayod County of Jonglei State to estimate the need for intervention activities to eliminate blinding trachoma. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: METHODOLOGY AND FINDINGS A cross-sectional two-stage cluster random survey was conducted in November 2006. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: All residents of selected households were clinically assessed for trachoma using the World Health Organization (WHO) simplified grading scheme. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: A total of 2,335 people from 392 households were examined, of whom 1,107 were over 14 years of age. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Prevalence of signs of active trachoma in children 1-9 years of age was: trachomatous inflammation follicular (TF) = 80.1% (95% confidence interval [CI], 73.9-86.3); trachomatous inflammation intense (TI) = 60.7% (95% CI, 54.6-66.8); and TF and/or TI (active trachoma) = 88.3% (95% CI, 83.7-92.9). Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Prevalence of trachomatous trichiasis (TT) was 14.6% (95% CI, 10.9-18.3) in adults over 14 years of age; 2.9% (95% CI, 0.4-5.3) in children 1-14 years of age; and 8.4% (95% CI, 5.5-11.3) overall. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: The prevalence of corneal opacity in persons over 14 years of age with TT was 6.4% (95% CI, 4.5-8.3). Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: No statistically significant difference was observed in the prevalence of trachoma signs between genders. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Trachoma affected almost all households surveyed: 384/392 (98.0%) had at least one person with active trachoma and 130 (33.2%) had at least one person with trichiasis. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: CONCLUSIONS Trachoma is an unnecessary public health problem in Ayod. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: The high prevalence of active trachoma and trichiasis confirms the severe burden of blinding trachoma found in other post-conflict areas of Southern Sudan. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Based on WHO recommended thresholds, all aspects of the SAFE strategy are indicated to eliminate blinding trachoma in Ayod. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: OBJECTIVE Limited surveys and anecdotal data indicate that trachoma is endemic in the states of Eastern Equatoria and Upper Nile in southern Sudan. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: However, its magnitude and geographical distribution are largely unknown. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: We conducted surveys to ascertain the prevalence and geographical distribution of trachoma, and to identify targets for control interventions. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: METHODS Population-based cross-sectional surveys were conducted in nine sites in southern Sudan between September 2001 and June 2004. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Two-stage random cluster sampling with probability proportional to size was used to select the sample. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Trachoma grading was done using the WHO simplified grading system. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: FINDINGS A total of 17 016 persons were examined, a response rate of 86.1% of the enumerated population. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Prevalence of signs of active trachoma in children aged 1-9 years was: TF=53.7% (95% confidence interval (CI)=52.1-55.3); TI=42.7% (95% CI=41.2-44.2); TF and/or TI=64.1% (95% CI=62.5-65.5). Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Prevalence of trichiasis (TT) in children aged less than 15 years was 1.2% (95% CI=0.9-1.4), while TT prevalence in persons aged 15 years and above was 9.2% (95% CI=8.6-9.9). Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Women were more likely to have trichiasis compared to men (odds ratio (OR)=1.57; 95% CI=1.34-1.84). Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Tentative extrapolation to the states of Eastern Equatoria and Upper Nile estimates that there is a backlog of 178,250 (lower and upper bounds=156,027-205,995) persons requiring surgery and the entire population, estimated to be over 3.9 million, is in need of the SAFE strategy to control blinding trachoma. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: CONCLUSION Trachoma is a public health problem in all nine of the study sites surveyed. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: The unusually high prevalence of active trachoma and TT in children points to the severity of the problem. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: There is urgent need to implement trachoma control interventions in trachoma endemic regions of southern Sudan. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: Background Blindness and low vision are thought to be common in southern Sudan. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: However, the magnitude and geographical distribution are largely unknown. Relevant:
Query: Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. Document: We aimed to estimate the prevalence of blindness and low vision, identify the main causes of blindness and low vision, and estimate targets for blindness prevention programs in Mankien payam (district), southern Sudan. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: In the mammalian model of sex determination, embryos are considered to be sexually indifferent until the transient action of a sex-determining gene initiates gonadal differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Although this model is thought to apply to all vertebrates, this has yet to be established. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Here we have examined three lateral gynandromorph chickens (a rare, naturally occurring phenomenon in which one side of the animal appears male and the other female) to investigate the sex-determining mechanism in birds. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: These studies demonstrated that gynandromorph birds are genuine male:female chimaeras, and indicated that male and female avian somatic cells may have an inherent sex identity. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: To test this hypothesis, we transplanted presumptive mesoderm between embryos of reciprocal sexes to generate embryos containing male:female chimaeric gonads. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: In contrast to the outcome for mammalian mixed-sex chimaeras, in chicken mixed-sex chimaeras the donor cells were excluded from the functional structures of the host gonad. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: In an example where female tissue was transplanted into a male host, donor cells contributing to the developing testis retained a female identity and expressed a marker of female function. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: A major question is whether genes encoded on the sex chromosomes act directly in non-gonadal tissues to cause sex differences in development or function, or whether all sex differences in somatic tissues are induced by gonadal secretions. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: As part of this question we asked whether mouse X-Y homologous gene pairs are expressed in brain in a sex-specific fashion. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Using RT-PCR and northern blot analysis, we assessed mRNA expression in brain of eight Y-linked genes as well as their X-linked homologues, at three ages: 13.5 days post coitum, the day of birth (P1) and adult. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Transcripts of six Y genes were expressed at one or more ages: Usp9y, Ube1y, Smcy, Eif2s3y, Uty and Dby. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Their expression also occurred in XY female brain, and therefore does not require testicular secretions. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Six X-linked homologues (Usp9x, Ube1x, Smcx, Eif2s3x, Utx and Dbx) were also expressed in brain, and in adulthood all of these transcripts were expressed at significantly higher levels in brains of females than in brains of males, irrespective of their X-inactivation status. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: For five of these gene pairs, the expression of the Y-linked homologue in males was not sufficient to compensate for the female bias in X gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Three X-Y gene pairs, Usp9x/y, Ube1x/y and Eif2s3x/y, appeared to be differentially regulated (expressed in brain in a different age- or tissue-dependent pattern), and hence may not be functionally equivalent. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: These sex differences in X-Y gene expression suggest several mechanisms by which these genes may participate in sex differences in brain development and function. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Nanog is a divergent homeodomain protein found in mammalian pluripotent cells and developing germ cells. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Deletion of Nanog causes early embryonic lethality, whereas constitutive expression enables autonomous self-renewal of embryonic stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Nanog is accordingly considered a core element of the pluripotent transcriptional network. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: However, here we report that Nanog fluctuates in mouse embryonic stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Transient downregulation of Nanog appears to predispose cells towards differentiation but does not mark commitment. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: By genetic deletion we show that, although they are prone to differentiate, embryonic stem cells can self-renew indefinitely in the permanent absence of Nanog. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Expanded Nanog null cells colonize embryonic germ layers and exhibit multilineage differentiation both in fetal and adult chimaeras. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Although they are also recruited to the germ line, primordial germ cells lacking Nanog fail to mature on reaching the genital ridge. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: This defect is rescued by repair of the mutant allele. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Thus Nanog is dispensible for expression of somatic pluripotency but is specifically required for formation of germ cells. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: Nanog therefore acts primarily in construction of inner cell mass and germ cell states rather than in the housekeeping machinery of pluripotency. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. Document: We surmise that Nanog stabilizes embryonic stem cells in culture by resisting or reversing alternative gene expression states. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: In the mammalian model of sex determination, embryos are considered to be sexually indifferent until the transient action of a sex-determining gene initiates gonadal differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Although this model is thought to apply to all vertebrates, this has yet to be established. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Here we have examined three lateral gynandromorph chickens (a rare, naturally occurring phenomenon in which one side of the animal appears male and the other female) to investigate the sex-determining mechanism in birds. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: These studies demonstrated that gynandromorph birds are genuine male:female chimaeras, and indicated that male and female avian somatic cells may have an inherent sex identity. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: To test this hypothesis, we transplanted presumptive mesoderm between embryos of reciprocal sexes to generate embryos containing male:female chimaeric gonads. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: In contrast to the outcome for mammalian mixed-sex chimaeras, in chicken mixed-sex chimaeras the donor cells were excluded from the functional structures of the host gonad. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: In an example where female tissue was transplanted into a male host, donor cells contributing to the developing testis retained a female identity and expressed a marker of female function. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: OBJECTIVES Patients with AL amyloidosis can benefit from high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Transplantation can be challenging due to fluid shifts, sepsis, and cardiac dysrhythmias. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Amyloidosis may present with autonomic neuropathy (AN) that renders peritransplant care problematic. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: The purpose of this study was to determine the outcome of patients with AN during and after ASCT. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: METHODS We performed a case-control study of patients with AL amyloidosis with associated AN and compared them to a large matched cohort without AN who also underwent ASCT. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: RESULTS We identified 13 patients with AN who underwent ASCT and a matched control group of 95 patients without AN. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Patients with AN had more organs involved (median 2.5 vs 1, p < 0.001) and the conditioning dose of melphalan was often reduced by 30% compared to controls without AN (p = 0.0015). Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Median duration of hospitalization was similar for both cohorts, as were engraftment kinetics. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Atrial fibrillation occurred in all patients with AN but in only 1 control patient (p < 0.0001). Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Median overall survival (OS) for patients with AN was 29 months but >60 months for controls (p < 0.0001). Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: On univariate analysis, cardiac involvement (p = 0.0132), AN (p = 0.0011), glomerular filtration rate (p = 0.038), number of organs involved (p = 0.0064), and NT-pro-BNP (p = 0.039) all had an impact on OS. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: On multivariate analysis, AN retained an independent adverse impact on OS. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: CONCLUSIONS Patients with autonomic neuropathy secondary to AL amyloidosis can undergo autologous stem cell transplantation with relative safety. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Autonomic neuropathy is an independent, adverse determinant of survival in these patients. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Reproductive cessation is perhaps the earliest aging phenotype that humans experience. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Similarly, reproduction of Caenorhabditis elegans ceases in mid-adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Although somatic aging has been studied in both worms and humans, mechanisms regulating reproductive aging are not yet understood. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Here, we show that TGF-β Sma/Mab and Insulin/IGF-1 signaling regulate C. elegans reproductive aging by modulating multiple aspects of the reproductive process, including embryo integrity, oocyte fertilizability, chromosome segregation fidelity, DNA damage resistance, and oocyte and germline morphology. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: TGF-β activity regulates reproductive span and germline/oocyte quality noncell-autonomously and is temporally and transcriptionally separable from its regulation of growth. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Chromosome segregation, cell cycle, and DNA damage response genes are upregulated in TGF-β mutant oocytes, decline in aged mammalian oocytes, and are critical for oocyte quality maintenance. Relevant:
Query: Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. Document: Our data suggest that C. elegans and humans share many aspects of reproductive aging, including the correlation between reproductive aging and declining oocyte quality and mechanisms determining oocyte quality. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: The differentiation of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis into a dormant spore is among the most well-characterized developmental pathways in biology. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Classical genetic screens performed over the past half century identified scores of factors involved in every step of this morphological process. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: More recently, transcriptional profiling uncovered additional sporulation-induced genes required for successful spore development. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Here, we used transposon-sequencing (Tn-seq) to assess whether there were any sporulation genes left to be discovered. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Our screen identified 133 out of the 148 genes with known sporulation defects. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Surprisingly, we discovered 24 additional genes that had not been previously implicated in spore formation. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: To investigate their functions, we used fluorescence microscopy to survey early, middle, and late stages of differentiation of null mutants from the B. subtilis ordered knockout collection. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: This analysis identified mutants that are delayed in the initiation of sporulation, defective in membrane remodeling, and impaired in spore maturation. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Several mutants had novel sporulation phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: We performed in-depth characterization of two new factors that participate in cell-cell signaling pathways during sporulation. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: One (SpoIIT) functions in the activation of σE in the mother cell; the other (SpoIIIL) is required for σG activity in the forespore. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Our analysis also revealed that as many as 36 sporulation-induced genes with no previously reported mutant phenotypes are required for timely spore maturation. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Finally, we discovered a large set of transposon insertions that trigger premature initiation of sporulation. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Our results highlight the power of Tn-seq for the discovery of new genes and novel pathways in sporulation and, combined with the recently completed null mutant collection, open the door for similar screens in other, less well-characterized processes. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: The Bacillus subtilis clpC operon is regulated by two stress induction pathways relying on either sigmaB or a class III stress induction mechanism acting at a sigmaA-like promoter. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: When the clpC operon was placed under the control of the isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)-inducible Pspac promoter, dramatic repression of the natural clpC promoters fused to a lacZ reporter gene was noticed after IPTG induction. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: This result strongly indicated negative regulation of the clpC operon by one of its gene products. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Indeed, the negative regulator could be identified which is encoded by the first gene of the clpC operon, ctsR, containing a predicted helix-turn-helix DNA-binding motif. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Deletion of ctsR abolished the negative regulation and resulted in high expression of both the clpC operon and the clpP gene under nonstressed conditions. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Nevertheless, a further increase in clpC and clpP mRNA levels was observed after heat shock, even in the absence of sigmaB, suggesting a second induction mechanism at the vegetative promoter. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Two-dimensional gel analysis and mRNA studies showed that the expression of other class III stress genes was at least partially influenced by the ctsR deletion. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Studies with different clpC promoter fragments either fused to the reporter gene bgaB or used in gel mobility shift experiments with the purified CtsR protein revealed a possible target region where the repressor seemed to bind in vivo and in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Our data demonstrate that the CtsR protein acts as a global repressor of the clpC operon, as well as other class III heat shock genes, by preventing unstressed transcription from either the sigmaB- or sigmaA-dependent promoter and might be inactivated or dissociate under inducing stress conditions. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Clp-controlled proteolysis in Bacillus subtilis seems to play a substantial role, particularly under stress conditions. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Calibrated Western blot analyses were used to estimate the approximate numbers of heat-inducible Clp molecules within a single cell. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: According to these numbers, the different Clp ATPases do not seem to compete for the proteolytic subunit ClpP. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments revealed the predicted specific ClpX-ClpP, ClpC-ClpP, and ClpE-ClpP interactions. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: ClpE and ClpX are rapidly degraded in wild-type cells during permanent heat stress but remained almost stable in a clpP mutant, suggesting ClpP-dependent degradation. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: In particular, ClpCP appeared to be involved in the degradation of the short-lived ClpE ATPase, indicating a negative "autoregulatory" circuit for this particular Clp ATPase at the posttranslational level. Relevant:
Query: Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. Document: Analysis of the half-life of stress-inducible clp mRNAs during exponential growth and heat shock revealed precise regulation of the synthesis of each Clp protein at the posttranscriptional level as well to meet the needs of B. subtilis. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Dietary energy restriction has been a widely used means of experimentally extending mammalian life span. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: We report here that lifelong reduction in the concentration of a single dietary component, the essential amino acid L-methionine, from 0.86 to 0.17% of the diet results in a 30% longer life span of male Fischer 344 rats. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Methionine restriction completely abolished growth, although food intake was actually greater on a body weight basis. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Studies of energy consumption in early life indicated that the energy intake of 0.17% methionine-fed animals was near normal for animals of their size, although consumption per animal was below that of the much larger 0.86% methionine-fed rats. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Increasing the energy intake of rats fed 0.17% methionine failed to increase their rate of growth, whereas restricting 0.85% methionine-fed rats to the food intake of 0.17% methionine-fed animals did not materially reduce growth, indicating that food restriction was not a factor in life span extension in these experiments. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: The biochemically well-defined pathways of methionine metabolism and utilization offer the potential for uncovering the precise mechanism(s) underlying this specific dietary restriction-related extension of life span. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Methionine is converted by the transmethylation/transsulfuration pathway to homocysteine which may exert atherogenic effects by several mechanisms, including lipid peroxidation. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Therefore, the excessive dietary methionine may induce the development of atherosclerosis. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: To test this hypothesis, plasma and aortic thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), as well as activities of aortic and erythrocyte superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (GPX) were measured in rabbits fed a diet enriched with 0.3% methionine for 6 or 9 months. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Histological examinations of aortas also were performed. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Feeding rabbits a methionine-enriched diet for 6 or 9 months resulted in significant increases in plasma and aortic TBARS levels and aortic antioxidant enzyme activities. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: However, a decrease in plasma antioxidant activity (AOA) was observed. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: In erythrocytes, SOD activity increased, catalase remained normal and GPX decreased in the treated animals. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Histological examination of aortas showed typical atherosclerotic changes, such as intimal thickening, deposition of cholesterol, and calcification in methionine-fed rabbits. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: These results confirm that high-methionine diet may induce atherosclerosis in rabbits and indicate disturbances in lipid peroxidation and antioxidant processes as possible mechanisms of its atherogenic influence. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Reduced dietary methionine intake (0.17% methionine, MR) and calorie restriction (CR) prolong lifespan in male Fischer 344 rats. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Although the mechanisms are unclear, both regimens feature lower body weight and reductions in adiposity. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Reduced fat deposition in CR is linked to preservation of insulin responsiveness in older animals. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: These studies examine the relationship between insulin responsiveness and visceral fat in MR and test whether, despite lower food intake observed in MR animals, decreased visceral fat accretion and preservation of insulin sensitivity is not secondary to CR. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Accordingly, rats pair fed (pf) control diet (0.86% methinone, CF) to match the food intake of MR for 80 weeks exhibit insulin, glucose, and leptin levels similar to control-fed animals and comparable amounts of visceral fat. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Conversely, MR rats show significantly reduced visceral fat compared to CF and PF with concomitant decreases in basal insulin, glucose, and leptin, and increased adiponectin and triiodothyronine. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Daily energy expenditure in MR animals significantly exceeds that of both PF and CF. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: In a separate cohort, insulin responses of older MR animals as measured by oral glucose challenge are similar to young animals. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Longitudinal assessments of MR and CF through 112 weeks of age reveal that MR prevents age-associated increases in serum lipids. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: By 16 weeks, MR animals show a 40% reduction in insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) that is sustained throughout life; CF IGF-1 levels decline much later, beginning at 112 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. Document: Collectively, the results indicate that MR reduces visceral fat and preserves insulin activity in aging rats independent of energy restriction. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: The average lifespan of humans is increasing, and with it the percentage of people entering the 65 and older age group is growing rapidly and will continue to do so in the next 20 years. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Within this age group, cardiovascular disease will remain the leading cause of death, and the cost associated with treatment will continue to increase. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Aging is an inevitable part of life and unfortunately poses the largest risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Although numerous studies in the cardiovascular field have considered both young and aged humans, there are still many unanswered questions as to how the genetic pathways that regulate aging in model organisms influence cardiovascular aging. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Likewise, in the molecular biology of aging field, few studies fully assess the role of these aging pathways in cardiovascular health. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Fortunately, this gap is beginning to close, and these two fields are merging together. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: We provide an overview of some of the key genes involved in regulating lifespan and health span, including sirtuins, AMP-activated protein kinase, mammalian target of rapamycin, and insulin-like growth factor 1 and their roles regulating cardiovascular health. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: We then discuss a series of review articles that will appear in succession and provide a more comprehensive analysis of studies carried out linking genes of aging and cardiovascular health, and perspectives of future directions of these two intimately linked fields. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs) play a key role in preventing autoimmunity by expressing tissue-restricted antigens to help purge the emerging T cell receptor repertoire of self-reactive specificities. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Here we demonstrate a novel role for a CD4+3− inducer cell population, previously linked to development of organized secondary lymphoid structures and maintenance of T cell memory in the functional regulation of Aire-mediated promiscuous gene expression in the thymus. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: CD4+3− cells are closely associated with mTECs in adult thymus, and in fetal thymus their appearance is temporally linked with the appearance of Aire+ mTECs. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: We show that RANKL signals from this cell promote the maturation of RANK-expressing CD80−Aire− mTEC progenitors into CD80+Aire+ mTECs, and that transplantation of RANK-deficient thymic stroma into immunodeficient hosts induces autoimmunity. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Collectively, our data reveal cellular and molecular mechanisms leading to the generation of Aire+ mTECs and highlight a previously unrecognized role for CD4+3−RANKL+ inducer cells in intrathymic self-tolerance. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Developmental abnormalities, cancer, and premature aging each have been linked to defects in the DNA damage response (DDR). Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Mutations in the ATR checkpoint regulator cause developmental defects in mice (pregastrulation lethality) and humans (Seckel syndrome). Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Here we show that eliminating ATR in adult mice leads to defects in tissue homeostasis and the rapid appearance of age-related phenotypes, such as hair graying, alopecia, kyphosis, osteoporosis, thymic involution, fibrosis, and other abnormalities. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Histological and genetic analyses indicate that ATR deletion causes acute cellular loss in tissues in which continuous cell proliferation is required for maintenance. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: Importantly, thymic involution, alopecia, and hair graying in ATR knockout mice were associated with dramatic reductions in tissue-specific stem and progenitor cells and exhaustion of tissue renewal and homeostatic capacity. Relevant:
Query: Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. Document: In aggregate, these studies suggest that reduced regenerative capacity in adults via deletion of a developmentally essential DDR gene is sufficient to cause the premature appearance of age-related phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: The interest in brown adipose tissue (BAT) as a target to combat metabolic disease has recently been renewed with the discovery of functional BAT in humans. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: In rodents, BAT can be activated by bile acids, which activate type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) in BAT via the G-coupled protein receptor TGR5, resulting in increased oxygen consumption and energy expenditure. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Here we examined the effects of oral supplementation of the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) on human BAT activity. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Treatment of 12 healthy female subjects with CDCA for 2 days resulted in increased BAT activity. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Whole-body energy expenditure was also increased upon CDCA treatment. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: In vitro treatment of primary human brown adipocytes derived with CDCA or specific TGR5 agonists increased mitochondrial uncoupling and D2 expression, an effect that was absent in human primary white adipocytes. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: These findings identify bile acids as a target to activate BAT in humans. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: OBJECTIVE The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL-18) putatively modulates food intake and energy metabolism, but the effects of IL-18 in high-fat diet fed animals are unknown. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Whether IL-18 alters basal metabolic rate or metabolic processes of living is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Here, we tested the hypothesis that IL-18 modulates weight gain, energy intake, whole-body energy expenditure, and utilization of lipid as a fuel substrate in high-fat diet fed mice. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: METHODS Food intake, whole-body metabolism, and motor activity of IL-18 knockout mice were compared to those of wildtype littermates; anorectic effects of intracerebroventricular IL-18 administration were compared between IL-18 receptor knockout, IL-18/IL-18R knockout and wildtype mice. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: RESULTS Chow-reared IL-18 knockout mice were overweight at 6 months of age and then gained excess weight on both low-fat and high-fat diets, ate more high-fat diet, and showed reduced whole-body energy expenditure and increased respiratory exchange ratios. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Reductions in energy expenditure of IL-18 knockout mice were seen across fasting vs. feeding conditions, low- vs. high-fat diets, high vs. low levels of physical activity and times of day, suggesting actions on basal metabolic rate. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: The circadian amplitude of energy expenditure, but not respiratory exchange ratio, food intake, or motor activity, also was blunted in IL-18 knockout mice. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Central IL-18 administration reduced high-fat diet intake in wildtype mice, but not in mice lacking the IL-18 receptor. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: CONCLUSION The loss-of-function results support the hypothesis that endogenous IL-18 suppresses appetite and promote energy expenditure and lipid fuel substrate utilization not only during sickness, but also in healthy adults consuming high-fat diets. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Twenty-four hour whole body indirect calorimetry has been used to study the effects of feeding, during a sedentary test day, isoenergetic diets which varied in fat (3 or 40 per cent of total energy) and carbohydrate (82 or 45 per cent) content. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Three groups of women were studied: lean, obese and 'post-obese' after slimming. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Energy expenditure was greater in absolute terms in the obese women. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Twenty-four hour energy expenditure was lower by only 3-7 per cent when fasting compared to that when fed to achieve energy balance. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: There were no large differences in energy expenditure between the two diets or between the groups but the thermogenic effect of the high carbohydrate diet was significantly greater than that of the high fat diet (5.8 vs 3.5 per cent of energy expenditure: P less than 0.01). Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: The post-obese tended to have lower energy expenditure per kg FFM than controls when fasting and when high-fat fed, but this pattern was not shown by the obese. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Sleeping energy expenditure was particularly low in the post-obese group when high-fat fed. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Dirunal variations in RQ appear to show more marked rise in morning RQ from the nocturnal minimum in the obese and post-obese, which might be evidence for an energy-saving mechanism through greater availability of stored dietary carbohydrate. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: The interest in brown adipose tissue (BAT) as a target to combat metabolic disease has recently been renewed with the discovery of functional BAT in humans. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: In rodents, BAT can be activated by bile acids, which activate type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) in BAT via the G-coupled protein receptor TGR5, resulting in increased oxygen consumption and energy expenditure. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Here we examined the effects of oral supplementation of the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) on human BAT activity. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Treatment of 12 healthy female subjects with CDCA for 2 days resulted in increased BAT activity. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Whole-body energy expenditure was also increased upon CDCA treatment. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: In vitro treatment of primary human brown adipocytes derived with CDCA or specific TGR5 agonists increased mitochondrial uncoupling and D2 expression, an effect that was absent in human primary white adipocytes. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: These findings identify bile acids as a target to activate BAT in humans. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: OBJECTIVE The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL-18) putatively modulates food intake and energy metabolism, but the effects of IL-18 in high-fat diet fed animals are unknown. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Whether IL-18 alters basal metabolic rate or metabolic processes of living is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Here, we tested the hypothesis that IL-18 modulates weight gain, energy intake, whole-body energy expenditure, and utilization of lipid as a fuel substrate in high-fat diet fed mice. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: METHODS Food intake, whole-body metabolism, and motor activity of IL-18 knockout mice were compared to those of wildtype littermates; anorectic effects of intracerebroventricular IL-18 administration were compared between IL-18 receptor knockout, IL-18/IL-18R knockout and wildtype mice. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: RESULTS Chow-reared IL-18 knockout mice were overweight at 6 months of age and then gained excess weight on both low-fat and high-fat diets, ate more high-fat diet, and showed reduced whole-body energy expenditure and increased respiratory exchange ratios. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Reductions in energy expenditure of IL-18 knockout mice were seen across fasting vs. feeding conditions, low- vs. high-fat diets, high vs. low levels of physical activity and times of day, suggesting actions on basal metabolic rate. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: The circadian amplitude of energy expenditure, but not respiratory exchange ratio, food intake, or motor activity, also was blunted in IL-18 knockout mice. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Central IL-18 administration reduced high-fat diet intake in wildtype mice, but not in mice lacking the IL-18 receptor. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: CONCLUSION The loss-of-function results support the hypothesis that endogenous IL-18 suppresses appetite and promote energy expenditure and lipid fuel substrate utilization not only during sickness, but also in healthy adults consuming high-fat diets. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Twenty-four hour whole body indirect calorimetry has been used to study the effects of feeding, during a sedentary test day, isoenergetic diets which varied in fat (3 or 40 per cent of total energy) and carbohydrate (82 or 45 per cent) content. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Three groups of women were studied: lean, obese and 'post-obese' after slimming. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Energy expenditure was greater in absolute terms in the obese women. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Twenty-four hour energy expenditure was lower by only 3-7 per cent when fasting compared to that when fed to achieve energy balance. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: There were no large differences in energy expenditure between the two diets or between the groups but the thermogenic effect of the high carbohydrate diet was significantly greater than that of the high fat diet (5.8 vs 3.5 per cent of energy expenditure: P less than 0.01). Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: The post-obese tended to have lower energy expenditure per kg FFM than controls when fasting and when high-fat fed, but this pattern was not shown by the obese. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Sleeping energy expenditure was particularly low in the post-obese group when high-fat fed. Relevant:
Query: Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. Document: Dirunal variations in RQ appear to show more marked rise in morning RQ from the nocturnal minimum in the obese and post-obese, which might be evidence for an energy-saving mechanism through greater availability of stored dietary carbohydrate. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Aerobic exercise training induces an increase in coronary blood flow capacity that is associated with altered control of coronary vascular resistance and, therefore, coronary blood flow. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The relative importance of metabolic, myogenic, endothelium-mediated, and neurohumoral control systems varies throughout the coronary arterial tree, and these control systems contribute in parallel to regulating coronary vascular resistance to differing degrees at each level in the coronary arterial tree. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: In addition to this nonuniformity of the relative importance of vascular control systems in the coronary arterial tree, it appears that exercise training-induced adaptations are also distributed spatially, in a nonuniform manner throughout the coronary tree. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: As a result, it is necessary to examine training-induced adaptations throughout the coronary arterial tree. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Adaptations in endothelium-mediated control play a role in training-induced changes in control of coronary vascular resistance, and there is evidence that the effects of training may be different in large coronary arteries than in the microcirculation. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Also, there is evidence that the mode, frequency, and intensity of exercise training bouts and duration of training may influence the adaptive changes in endothelial function. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Exercise training has also been shown to induce changes in responses of coronary vascular smooth muscle to vasoactive agents and alterations in the cellular-molecular control of intracellular Ca2+ in coronary vascular smooth muscle of conduit coronary arteries and to enhance myogenic reactivity of coronary resistance arteries. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Exercise training also appears to have different effects on vascular smooth muscle in large coronary arteries than in the microcirculation. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: For example, adenosine sensitivity is increased in conduit coronary arteries and large resistance arteries after training but is not altered in small coronary resistance arteries of trained animals. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Although much remains to be studied, evidence clearly indicates that chronic exercise alters the phenotype of coronary endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells and that plasticity of these cells plays a role in adaptation of the cardiovascular system in exercise training. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Vascular endothelial cells produce nitric oxide (NO), which is a potent vasodilator substance and has been proposed as having antiatherosclerotic property. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Vascular endothelial cells also produce endothelin-1 (ET-1), which is a potent vasoconstrictor peptide and has potent proliferating activity on vascular smooth muscle cells. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Therefore, ET-1 has been implicated in the progression of atheromatous vascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Because exercise training has been reported to produce an alteration in the function of vascular endothelial cells in animals, we hypothesized that exercise training influences the production of NO and ET-1 in humans. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The purpose of the present study was to examine whether chronic exercise could influence the plasma levels of NO (measured as the stable end product of NO, i.e., nitrite/nitrate [NOx]) and ET-1 in humans. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Eight healthy young subjects (20.3 +/- Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: 0.5 yr old) participated in the study and exercised by cycling on a leg ergometer (70% VO2max for 1 hour, 3-4 days/week) for 8 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Venous plasma concentrations of NOx and ET-1 were measured before and after (immediately before the end of 8-week exercise training) the exercise training, and also after the 4th and 8th week after the cessation of training. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The VO2max significantly increased after exercise training. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: After the exercise training, the plasma concentration of NOx significantly increased (30.69 +/- Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: 3.20 vs. 48.64 +/- Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: 8.16 micromol/L, p < 0.05), and the plasma concentration of ET-1 significantly decreased (1.65 +/- 0.14 vs. 1.23 +/- Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: 0.12 pg/mL, p < 0.05). Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The increase in NOx level and the decrease in ET-1 level lasted to the 4th week after the cessation of exercise training and these levels (levels of NOx and ET-1) returned to the basal levels (the levels before the exercise training) in the 8th week after the cessation of exercise training. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: There was a significant negative correlation between plasma NOx concentration and plasma ET-1 concentration. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The present study suggests that chronic exercise causes an increase in production of NO and a decrease in production of ET-1 in humans, which may produce beneficial effects (i.e., vasodilative and antiatherosclerotic) on the cardiovascular system. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Vascular endothelial cells produce nitric oxide (NO), which is a potent vasodilator substance and is thought to have antiatherosclerotic properties. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: Therefore, it has also been proposed that NO may be useful to regulate vascular tonus and prevent progression of atherosclerosis. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: On the other hand, NO activity reduces with aging. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: We previously reported that the plasma nitrite/nitrate (NOx: the stable end product of NO) concentration was significantly increased by intense aerobic exercise training in healthy young humans. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: We hypothesized that lifestyle modification (e.g., even mild regular exercise training) can increase NO production in previously sedentary older humans. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: We measured the plasma NOx concentration before and after a mild aerobic exercise training regimen (cycling on a leg ergometer at 80% ventilatory threshold for 30 min, 5 days/week) for 3 months in elderly women. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: In addition, we assessed the plasma concentration of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), a second messenger of NO, in the same samples. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The individual ventilatory threshold increased significantly after the 3-month exercise training. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The blood pressure at rest significantly decreased after exercise training. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: These results suggest that the 3-month exercise training in the older women produced favorable physiological effects. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The plasma concentration of NOx significantly increased by the exercise training, and the plasma concentration of cGMP also increased by the exercise training. Relevant:
Query: Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. Document: The present study suggests that even a mild regular aerobic-endurance exercise increases NO production in previously sedentary older humans, which may have beneficial effects (i.e., antihypertensive and antiatherosclerotic effects by endogenous NO) on the cardiovascular system. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1), which is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane of mammalian brown adipose tissue (BAT), generates heat by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Upon cold exposure or nutritional abundance, sympathetic neurons stimulate BAT to express Ucp1 to induce energy dissipation and thermogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Accordingly, increased Ucp1 expression reduces obesity in mice and is correlated with leanness in humans. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Despite this significance, there is currently a limited understanding of how Ucp1 expression is physiologically regulated at the molecular level. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Here, we describe the involvement of Sestrin2 and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in regulation of Ucp1 expression. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Transgenic overexpression of Sestrin2 in adipose tissues inhibited both basal and cold-induced Ucp1 expression in interscapular BAT, culminating in decreased thermogenesis and increased fat accumulation. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Endogenous Sestrin2 is also important for suppressing Ucp1 expression because BAT from Sestrin2(-/-) mice exhibited a highly elevated level of Ucp1 expression. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: The redox-inactive mutant of Sestrin2 was incapable of regulating Ucp1 expression, suggesting that Sestrin2 inhibits Ucp1 expression primarily through reducing ROS accumulation. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Consistently, ROS-suppressing antioxidant chemicals, such as butylated hydroxyanisole and N-acetylcysteine, inhibited cold- or cAMP-induced Ucp1 expression as well. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: p38 MAPK, a signaling mediator required for cAMP-induced Ucp1 expression, was inhibited by either Sestrin2 overexpression or antioxidant treatments. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Taken together, these results suggest that Sestrin2 and antioxidants inhibit Ucp1 expression through suppressing ROS-mediated p38 MAPK activation, implying a critical role of ROS in proper BAT metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Molecular mechanisms underlying the cold-associated high cardiovascular risk remain unknown. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Here, we show that the cold-triggered food-intake-independent lipolysis significantly increased plasma levels of small low-density lipoprotein (LDL) remnants, leading to accelerated development of atherosclerotic lesions in mice. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: In two genetic mouse knockout models (apolipoprotein E(-/-) [ApoE(-/-)] and LDL receptor(-/-) [Ldlr(-/-)] mice), persistent cold exposure stimulated atherosclerotic plaque growth by increasing lipid deposition. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Furthermore, marked increase of inflammatory cells and plaque-associated microvessels were detected in the cold-acclimated ApoE(-/-) and Ldlr(-/-) mice, leading to plaque instability. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Deletion of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), a key mitochondrial protein involved in thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (BAT), in the ApoE(-/-) strain completely protected mice from the cold-induced atherosclerotic lesions. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Cold acclimation markedly reduced plasma levels of adiponectin, and systemic delivery of adiponectin protected ApoE(-/-) mice from plaque development. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: These findings provide mechanistic insights on low-temperature-associated cardiovascular risks. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: Brown adipocytes dissipate energy, whereas white adipocytes are an energy storage site. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: We explored the plasticity of different white adipose tissue depots in acquiring a brown phenotype by cold exposure. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: By comparing cold-induced genes in white fat to those enriched in brown compared with white fat, at thermoneutrality we defined a "brite" transcription signature. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: We identified the genes, pathways, and promoter regulatory motifs associated with "browning," as these represent novel targets for understanding this process. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: For example, neuregulin 4 was more highly expressed in brown adipose tissue and upregulated in white fat upon cold exposure, and cell studies showed that it is a neurite outgrowth-promoting adipokine, indicative of a role in increasing adipose tissue innervation in response to cold. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: A cell culture system that allows us to reproduce the differential properties of the discrete adipose depots was developed to study depot-specific differences at an in vitro level. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. Document: The key transcriptional events underpinning white adipose tissue to brown transition are important, as they represent an attractive proposition to overcome the detrimental effects associated with metabolic disorders, including obesity and type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1), which is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane of mammalian brown adipose tissue (BAT), generates heat by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Upon cold exposure or nutritional abundance, sympathetic neurons stimulate BAT to express Ucp1 to induce energy dissipation and thermogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Accordingly, increased Ucp1 expression reduces obesity in mice and is correlated with leanness in humans. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Despite this significance, there is currently a limited understanding of how Ucp1 expression is physiologically regulated at the molecular level. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Here, we describe the involvement of Sestrin2 and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in regulation of Ucp1 expression. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Transgenic overexpression of Sestrin2 in adipose tissues inhibited both basal and cold-induced Ucp1 expression in interscapular BAT, culminating in decreased thermogenesis and increased fat accumulation. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Endogenous Sestrin2 is also important for suppressing Ucp1 expression because BAT from Sestrin2(-/-) mice exhibited a highly elevated level of Ucp1 expression. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: The redox-inactive mutant of Sestrin2 was incapable of regulating Ucp1 expression, suggesting that Sestrin2 inhibits Ucp1 expression primarily through reducing ROS accumulation. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Consistently, ROS-suppressing antioxidant chemicals, such as butylated hydroxyanisole and N-acetylcysteine, inhibited cold- or cAMP-induced Ucp1 expression as well. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: p38 MAPK, a signaling mediator required for cAMP-induced Ucp1 expression, was inhibited by either Sestrin2 overexpression or antioxidant treatments. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Taken together, these results suggest that Sestrin2 and antioxidants inhibit Ucp1 expression through suppressing ROS-mediated p38 MAPK activation, implying a critical role of ROS in proper BAT metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Molecular mechanisms underlying the cold-associated high cardiovascular risk remain unknown. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Here, we show that the cold-triggered food-intake-independent lipolysis significantly increased plasma levels of small low-density lipoprotein (LDL) remnants, leading to accelerated development of atherosclerotic lesions in mice. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: In two genetic mouse knockout models (apolipoprotein E(-/-) [ApoE(-/-)] and LDL receptor(-/-) [Ldlr(-/-)] mice), persistent cold exposure stimulated atherosclerotic plaque growth by increasing lipid deposition. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Furthermore, marked increase of inflammatory cells and plaque-associated microvessels were detected in the cold-acclimated ApoE(-/-) and Ldlr(-/-) mice, leading to plaque instability. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Deletion of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), a key mitochondrial protein involved in thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (BAT), in the ApoE(-/-) strain completely protected mice from the cold-induced atherosclerotic lesions. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Cold acclimation markedly reduced plasma levels of adiponectin, and systemic delivery of adiponectin protected ApoE(-/-) mice from plaque development. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: These findings provide mechanistic insights on low-temperature-associated cardiovascular risks. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Cold injury is a tissue trauma produced by exposure to freezing temperatures and even brief exposure to a severely cold and windy environment. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Rewarming of frozen tissue is associated with blood reperfusion and the simultaneous generation of free oxygen radicals. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: In this review is discussed the current understanding of the mechanism of action of free oxygen radicals as related to cold injury during rewarming. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Decreased energy stores during ischaemia lead to the accumulation of adenine nucleotides and liberation of free fatty acids due to the breakdown of lipid membranes. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: On rewarming, free fatty acids are metabolized via cyclo-oxygenase and adenine nucleotides are metabolized via the xanthine oxidase pathway. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: These may be the source of free oxygen radicals. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Leukocytes may also play a major role in the pathogenesis of cold injury. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Oxygen radical scavengers, such as superoxide dismutase and catalase, may help to reduce the cold induced injury but their action is limited due to the inability readily to cross the plasma membrane. Relevant:
Query: Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. Document: Lipid soluble antioxidants are likely to be more effective scavengers because of their presence in membranes where peroxidative reactions can be arrested. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: IMPORTANCE Combining pharmacotherapies for tobacco-dependence treatment may increase smoking abstinence. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine efficacy and safety of varenicline and bupropion sustained-release (SR; combination therapy) compared with varenicline (monotherapy) in cigarette smokers. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled multicenter clinical trial with a 12-week treatment period and follow-up through week 52 conducted between October 2009 and April 2013 at 3 midwestern clinical research sites. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Five hundred six adult (≥18 years) cigarette smokers were randomly assigned and 315 (62%) completed the study. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: INTERVENTIONS Twelve weeks of varenicline and bupropion SR or varenicline and placebo. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Primary outcome was abstinence rates at week 12, defined as prolonged (no smoking from 2 weeks after the target quit date) abstinence and 7-day point-prevalence (no smoking past 7 days) abstinence. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Secondary outcomes were prolonged and point-prevalence smoking abstinence rates at weeks 26 and 52. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Outcomes were biochemically confirmed. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: RESULTS At 12 weeks, 53.0% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged smoking abstinence and 56.2% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 43.2% and 48.6% in varenicline monotherapy (odds ratio [OR], 1.49; 95% CI, 1.05-2.12; P = .03 and OR, 1.36; 95% CI, 0.95-1.93; P = .09, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: At 26 weeks, 36.6% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged and 38.2% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 27.6% and 31.9% in varenicline monotherapy (OR, 1.52; 95% CI, 1.04-2.22; P = .03 and OR, 1.32; 95% CI, 0.91-1.91; P = .14, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: At 52 weeks, 30.9% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged and 36.6% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 24.5% and 29.2% in varenicline monotherapy (OR, 1.39; 95% CI, 0.93-2.07; P = .11 and OR, 1.40; 95% CI, 0.96-2.05; P = .08, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Participants receiving combination therapy reported more anxiety (7.2% vs 3.1%; P = .04) and depressive symptoms (3.6% vs 0.8%; P = .03). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Among cigarette smokers, combined use of varenicline and bupropion, compared with varenicline alone, increased prolonged abstinence but not 7-day point prevalence at 12 and 26 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Neither outcome was significantly different at 52 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Further research is required to determine the role of combination therapy in smoking cessation. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00935818. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: BACKGROUND Smoking is the leading preventable cause of illness and premature death worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Some medications have been proven to help people to quit, with three licensed for this purpose in Europe and the USA: nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), bupropion, and varenicline. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Cytisine (a treatment pharmacologically similar to varenicline) is also licensed for use in Russia and some of the former socialist economy countries. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Other therapies, including nortriptyline, have also been tested for effectiveness. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: OBJECTIVES How do NRT, bupropion and varenicline compare with placebo and with each other in achieving long-term abstinence (six months or longer)? Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: How do the remaining treatments compare with placebo in achieving long-term abstinence? Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: How do the risks of adverse and serious adverse events (SAEs) compare between the treatments, and are there instances where the harms may outweigh the benefits? Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: METHODS The overview is restricted to Cochrane reviews, all of which include randomised trials. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Participants are usually adult smokers, but we exclude reviews of smoking cessation for pregnant women and in particular disease groups or specific settings. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: We cover nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), antidepressants (bupropion and nortriptyline), nicotine receptor partial agonists (varenicline and cytisine), anxiolytics, selective type 1 cannabinoid receptor antagonists (rimonabant), clonidine, lobeline, dianicline, mecamylamine, Nicobrevin, opioid antagonists, nicotine vaccines, and silver acetate. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Our outcome for benefit is continuous or prolonged abstinence at least six months from the start of treatment. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Our outcome for harms is the incidence of serious adverse events associated with each of the treatments. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: We searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) in The Cochrane Library, for any reviews with 'smoking' in the title, abstract or keyword fields. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: The last search was conducted in November 2012. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: We assessed methodological quality using a revised version of the AMSTAR scale. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: For NRT, bupropion and varenicline we conducted network meta-analyses, comparing each with the others and with placebo for benefit, and varenicline and bupropion for risks of serious adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: MAIN RESULTS We identified 12 treatment-specific reviews. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: The analyses covered 267 studies, involving 101,804 participants. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Both NRT and bupropion were superior to placebo (odds ratios (OR) 1.84; 95% credible interval (CredI) 1.71 to 1.99, and 1.82; 95% CredI 1.60 to 2.06 respectively). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Varenicline increased the odds of quitting compared with placebo (OR 2.88; 95% CredI 2.40 to 3.47). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Head-to-head comparisons between bupropion and NRT showed equal efficacy (OR 0.99; 95% CredI 0.86 to 1.13). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Varenicline was superior to single forms of NRT (OR 1.57; 95% CredI 1.29 to 1.91), and to bupropion (OR 1.59; 95% CredI 1.29 to 1.96). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Varenicline was more effective than nicotine patch (OR 1.51; 95% CredI 1.22 to 1.87), than nicotine gum (OR 1.72; 95% CredI 1.38 to 2.13), and than 'other' NRT (inhaler, spray, tablets, lozenges; OR 1.42; 95% CredI 1.12 to 1.79), but was not more effective than combination NRT (OR 1.06; 95% CredI 0.75 to 1.48). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Combination NRT also outperformed single formulations. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: The four categories of NRT performed similarly against each other, apart from 'other' NRT, which was marginally more effective than NRT gum (OR 1.21; 95% CredI 1.01 to 1.46). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Cytisine (a nicotine receptor partial agonist) returned positive findings (risk ratio (RR) 3.98; 95% CI 2.01 to 7.87), without significant adverse events or SAEs. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Across the 82 included and excluded bupropion trials, our estimate of six seizures in the bupropion arms versus none in the placebo arms was lower than the expected rate (1:1000), at about 1:1500. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: SAE meta-analysis of the bupropion studies demonstrated no excess of neuropsychiatric (RR 0.88; 95% CI 0.31 to 2.50) or cardiovascular events (RR 0.77; 95% CI 0.37 to 1.59). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: SAE meta-analysis of 14 varenicline trials found no difference between the varenicline and placebo arms (RR 1.06; 95% CI 0.72 to 1.55), and subgroup analyses detected no significant excess of neuropsychiatric events (RR 0.53; 95% CI 0.17 to 1.67), or of cardiac events (RR 1.26; 95% CI 0.62 to 2.56). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Nortriptyline increased the chances of quitting (RR 2.03; 95% CI 1.48 to 2.78). Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Neither nortriptyline nor bupropion were shown to enhance the effect of NRT compared with NRT alone. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Clonidine increased the chances of quitting (RR 1.63; 95% CI 1.22 to 2.18), but this was offset by a dose-dependent rise in adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Mecamylamine in combination with NRT may increase the chances of quitting, but the current evidence is inconclusive. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Other treatments failed to demonstrate a benefit compared with placebo. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Nicotine vaccines are not yet licensed for use as an aid to smoking cessation or relapse prevention. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Nicobrevin's UK license is now revoked, and the manufacturers of rimonabant, taranabant and dianicline are no longer supporting the development or testing of these treatments. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS NRT, bupropion, varenicline and cytisine have been shown to improve the chances of quitting. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Combination NRT and varenicline are equally effective as quitting aids. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Nortriptyline also improves the chances of quitting. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: On current evidence, none of the treatments appear to have an incidence of adverse events that would mitigate their use. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Further research is warranted into the safety of varenicline and into cytisine's potential as an effective and affordable treatment, but not into the efficacy and safety of NRT. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Alcohol dependence is a disease that impacts millions of individuals worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: There has been some progress with pharmacotherapy for alcohol-dependent individuals; however, there remains a critical need for the development of novel and additional therapeutic approaches. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Alcohol and nicotine are commonly abused together, and there is evidence that neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) play a role in both alcohol and nicotine dependence. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Varenicline, a partial agonist at the alpha4beta2 nAChRs, reduces nicotine intake and was recently approved as a smoking cessation aid. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: We have investigated the role of varenicline in the modulation of ethanol consumption and seeking using three different animal models of drinking. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: We show that acute administration of varenicline, in doses reported to reduce nicotine reward, selectively reduced ethanol but not sucrose seeking using an operant self-administration drinking paradigm and also decreased voluntary ethanol but not water consumption in animals chronically exposed to ethanol for 2 months before varenicline treatment. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: Furthermore, chronic varenicline administration decreased ethanol consumption, which did not result in a rebound increase in ethanol intake when the varenicline was no longer administered. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: The data suggest that the alpha4beta2 nAChRs may play a role in ethanol-seeking behaviors in animals chronically exposed to ethanol. Relevant:
Query: Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. Document: The selectivity of varenicline in decreasing ethanol consumption combined with its reported safety profile and mild side effects in humans suggest that varenicline may prove to be a treatment for alcohol dependence. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Somatic mutations that activate phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) have been identified in the p110-alpha catalytic subunit (encoded by PIK3CA). Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: They are most frequently observed in two hotspots: the helical domain (E545K and E542K) and the kinase domain (H1047R). Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Although the p110-alpha mutants are transforming in vitro, their oncogenic potential has not been assessed in genetically engineered mouse models. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Furthermore, clinical trials with PI3K inhibitors have recently been initiated, and it is unknown if their efficacy will be restricted to specific, genetically defined malignancies. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: In this study, we engineered a mouse model of lung adenocarcinomas initiated and maintained by expression of p110-alpha H1047R. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Treatment of these tumors with NVP-BEZ235, a dual pan-PI3K and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor in clinical development, led to marked tumor regression as shown by positron emission tomography-computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and microscopic examination. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: In contrast, mouse lung cancers driven by mutant Kras did not substantially respond to single-agent NVP-BEZ235. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: However, when NVP-BEZ235 was combined with a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor, ARRY-142886, there was marked synergy in shrinking these Kras-mutant cancers. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: These in vivo studies suggest that inhibitors of the PI3K-mTOR pathway may be active in cancers with PIK3CA mutations and, when combined with MEK inhibitors, may effectively treat KRAS mutated lung cancers. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: 5247 Constitutive ERK signaling is common in human cancer and is often the result of activating mutations of BRAF, RAS and upstream receptor tyrosine kinases. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Missense BRAF kinase domain mutations are frequently observed in melanoma, colon and thyroid cancers and less frequently in lung and other cancer types. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: The vast majority (>90%) involve a glutamic acid for valine substitution at codon 600 (V600E), which results in elevated BRAF kinase activity. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: BRAF kinase domain mutations with intermediate and impaired kinase activity have also been identified, most frequently in NSCLC. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: We have previously reported that tumors with V600E BRAF mutation are selectively sensitive to MEK inhibition. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Using the potent and selective MEK1/2 inhibitor PD0325901 (Pfizer), we examined a panel of NSCLC cell lines with mutant EGFR, KRAS, and/or low, intermediate and high-activity BRAF kinase domain mutations for MEK dependence. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: In all but one case, EGFR, KRAS and BRAF mutations were mutually exclusive with the exception being a cell line with concurrent NRAS and intermediate activity BRAF mutations. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Consistent with our prior results, NSCLC cells with V600E BRAF mutation were exquisitely sensitive to MEK inhibition (PD0325901 IC50 of 2nM). Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: The proliferation of cells with non-V600E mutations, including those with high (G469A), intermediate (L597V) and impaired (G466V) kinase activities, was also MEK dependent with IC50’s ranging between 2.7 and 80 nM. Inhibition of MEK in these cells resulted in downregulation of cyclin D1 and G1 growth arrest, with variable induction of apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Despite high basal ERK activity, NSCLC tumor cells with EGFR mutation were uniformly resistant to MEK inhibition (at doses of up to 500nM), despite effective and prolonged inhibition of ERK phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Tumor cells with RAS mutation had a more variable response, with some cell lines demonstrating sensitivity, while others were completely resistant. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: There was no correlation between basal ERK activity and sensitivity to MEK inhibition. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: A strong inverse correlation between Akt activity and PD0325901 sensitivity was observed. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: These results suggest that MEK inhibition may be useful therapeutically in tumors with V600E and non-V600E BRAF kinase domain mutations. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: The results also suggest that inhibition of both MEK and Akt signaling may be required in NSCLC tumors with high basal AKT activity. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Induction of compensatory mechanisms and ERK reactivation has limited the effectiveness of Raf and MEK inhibitors in RAS-mutant cancers. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: We determined that direct pharmacologic inhibition of ERK suppressed the growth of a subset of KRAS-mutant pancreatic cancer cell lines and that concurrent phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibition caused synergistic cell death. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Additional combinations that enhanced ERK inhibitor action were also identified. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Unexpectedly, long-term treatment of sensitive cell lines caused senescence, mediated in part by MYC degradation and p16 reactivation. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Enhanced basal PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling was associated with de novo resistance to ERK inhibitor, as were other protein kinases identified by kinome-wide siRNA screening and a genetic gain-of-function screen. Relevant:
Query: Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. Document: Our findings reveal distinct consequences of inhibiting this kinase cascade at the level of ERK. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The non-enveloped bacilliform viruses are the second group of plant viruses known to possess a genome consisting of circular double-stranded DNA. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: We have characterized the viral transcript and determined the complete sequence of the genome of Commelina mellow mottle virus (CoYMV), a member of this group. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Analysis of the viral transcript indicates that the virus encodes a single terminally-redundant genome-length plus 120 nucleotide transcript. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: A fraction of the transcripts is polyadenylated, although the majority of the transcript is not polyadenylated. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Analysis of the genome sequence indicates that the genome is 7489 bp in size and that the transcribed strand contains three open reading frames capable of encoding proteins of 23, 15 and 216 kd. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The function of the 25 and 15 kd proteins is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Similarities between the 216 kd polypeptide and the cauliflower mosaic virus coat protein and protease/reverse transcriptase polyprotein suggest that the 216 kd polypeptide is a polyprotein that is proteolytically processed to yield the virion coat protein, a protease, and replicase (reverse transcriptase and ribonuclease H). Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Each strand of the CoYMV genome is interrupted by site-specific discontinuities. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The locations of the 5'-ends of these discontinuities, and the presence and location of a region on the CoYMV transcript capable of annealing with the 3'-end of cytosolic initiator methionine tRNA are consistent with replication by reverse transcription. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: We have demonstrated that a construct containing 1.3 CoYMV genomes is infective when introduced into Commelina diffusa, the host for CoYMV, using Agrobacterium-mediated infection. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Sri Lankan black pepper with symptoms of yellow mottle disease contained a mixture of viruses: Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Piper yellow mottle virus (PYMV) particles (30 × 130 nm), Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV, 30 nm diameter isometric particles), and unidentified, isometric virus-like particles (30 nm diameter). Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: An effective purification procedure is described for PYMV. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Immunosorbent and conventional electron microscopy successfully detected badnavirus particles only when at least partially purified extracts were used. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: PYMV was confirmed as the cause of the disease, with the other two viruses apparently playing no part in producing symptoms. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: PYMV was transmitted by grafting, by the insect vectors citrus mealy bug (Planococcus citri) and black pepper lace bug (Diconocoris distanti), but not by mechanical inoculation or through seeds. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The CMV isolate was transmitted to indicator plants by mechanical inoculation and by the vector Aphis gossypii, but not by Myzus persicae; but neither mechanical nor insect transmission of CMV to black pepper was successful. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: A sensitive polymerase chain reaction assay was developed to detect PYMV in black pepper. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: A new badnavirus was discovered from pagoda trees showing yellow mosaic symptoms on the leaves by high throughput sequencing of small RNAs. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The complete genome of this virus was determined to comprise 7424 nucleotides, and the virus shared 40.4-45.1% identity with that of other badnaviruses. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The genome encodes five open reading frames (ORFs) on the plus strand, which includes three conserved badnaviral ORFs. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: These results suggest that this virus is a new member of the genus Badnavirus in the family Caulimoviridae. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The virus is tentatively named pagoda yellow mosaic associated virus (PYMAV). Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Phylogenetic analysis suggested that this virus together with gooseberry vein banding virus (GVBV) and grapevine vein-clearing virus (GVCV) forms a separate group that is distinct two other well characterized badnaviral groups. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Additionally, the viral derived small RNA (vsRNA) profile of PYMAV was analyzed and compared with that of viruses within the same family. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Results showed that the most abundant PYMAV vsRNAs were 21-nt, whereas other viruses in the same family have a predominance of 22- or 24-nt vsRNA. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: The percentage of sense PYMAV vsRNA was almost equal to that of antisense vsRNA, whereas vsRNAs of other viruses in the family display preferences toward the sense strand of their genome. Relevant:
Query: Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. Document: Furthermore, PYMAV vsRNAs were symmetrically distributed along the genome with no obvious vsRNA generating hotspots. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: During meiosis, recombination between homologous chromosomes generates crossover (CR) and noncrossover (NCR) products. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: CRs establish connections between homologs, whereas intermediates leading to NCRs have been proposed to participate in homologous pairing. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: How these events are differentiated and regulated remains to be determined. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: We have developed a strategy to detect, quantify, and map NCRs in parallel to CRs, at the Psmb9 meiotic recombination hot spot, in male and female mouse germ lines. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Our results report direct molecular evidence for distinct CR and NCR pathways of DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair in mouse meiosis based on three observations: both CRs and NCRs require Spo11, NCR products have shorter conversion tracts than CRs, and only CRs require the MutL homolog Mlh1. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: We show that both products are formed from middle to late pachytene of meiotic prophase and provide evidence for an Mlh1-independent CR pathway, where mismatch repair does not require Mlh1. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Proper execution of transcriptional programs is a key requirement of gene expression regulation, demanding accurate control of timing and amplitude. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: How precisely the transcription machinery fulfills this task is not known. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Using an in situ hybridization approach that detects single mRNA molecules, we measured mRNA abundance and transcriptional activity within single Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: We found that expression levels for particular genes are higher than initially reported and can vary substantially among cells. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: However, variability for most constitutively expressed genes is unexpectedly small. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Combining single-transcript measurements with computational modeling indicates that low expression variation is achieved by transcribing genes using single transcription-initiation events that are clearly separated in time, rather than by transcriptional bursts. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: In contrast, PDR5, a gene regulated by the transcription coactivator complex SAGA, is expressed using transcription bursts, resulting in larger variation. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: These data directly demonstrate the existence of multiple expression modes used to modulate the transcriptome. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), which are formed by the Spo11 protein, initiate meiotic recombination. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Previous DSB-mapping studies have used rad50S or sae2Δ mutants, which are defective in break processing, to accumulate Spo11-linked DSBs, and report large (≥ 50 kb) “DSB-hot” regions that are separated by “DSB-cold” domains of similar size. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Substantial recombination occurs in some DSB-cold regions, suggesting that DSB patterns are not normal in rad50S or sae2Δ mutants. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: We therefore developed a novel method to map genome-wide, single-strand DNA (ssDNA)–associated DSBs that accumulate in processing-capable, repair-defective dmc1Δ and dmc1Δ rad51Δ mutants. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: DSBs were observed at known hot spots, but also in most previously identified “DSB-cold” regions, including near centromeres and telomeres. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Although approximately 40% of the genome is DSB-cold in rad50S mutants, analysis of meiotic ssDNA from dmc1Δ shows that most of these regions have substantial DSB activity. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Southern blot assays of DSBs in selected regions in dmc1Δ, rad50S, and wild-type cells confirm these findings. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Thus, DSBs are distributed much more uniformly than was previously believed. Relevant:
Query: Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Document: Comparisons of DSB signals in dmc1, dmc1 rad51, and dmc1 spo11 mutant strains identify Dmc1 as a critical strand-exchange activity genome-wide, and confirm previous conclusions that Spo11-induced lesions initiate all meiotic recombination. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Mice lacking the transcription factor T-bet in the innate immune system develop microbiota-dependent colitis. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Here, we show that interleukin-17A (IL-17A)-producing IL-7Rα(+) innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) were potent promoters of disease in Tbx21(-/-)Rag2(-/-) ulcerative colitis (TRUC) mice. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: TNF-α produced by CD103(-)CD11b(+) dendritic cells synergized with IL-23 to drive IL-17A production by ILCs, demonstrating a previously unrecognized layer of cellular crosstalk between dendritic cells and ILCs. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: We have identified Helicobacter typhlonius as a key disease trigger driving excess TNF-α production and promoting colitis in TRUC mice. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Crucially, T-bet also suppressed the expression of IL-7R, a key molecule involved in controlling intestinal ILC homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: The importance of IL-7R signaling in TRUC disease was highlighted by the dramatic reduction in intestinal ILCs and attenuated colitis following IL-7R blockade. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Taken together, these data demonstrate the mechanism by which T-bet regulates the complex interplay between mucosal dendritic cells, ILCs, and the intestinal microbiota. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Results of experimental and genetic studies have highlighted the role of the IL-23/IL-17 axis in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: IL-23-driven inflammation has been primarily linked to Th17 cells; however, we have recently identified a novel population of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) in mice that produces IL-17, IL-22, and IFN-γ in response to IL-23 and mediates innate colitis. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: The relevance of ILC populations in human health and disease is currently poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: In this study, we have analyzed the role of IL-23-responsive ILCs in the human intestine in control and IBD patients. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Our results show increased expression of the Th17-associated cytokine genes IL17A and IL17F among intestinal CD3⁻ cells in IBD. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: IL17A and IL17F expression is restricted to CD56⁻ ILCs, whereas IL-23 induces IL22 and IL26 in the CD56⁺ ILC compartment. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Furthermore, we observed a significant and selective increase in CD127⁺CD56⁻ ILCs in the inflamed intestine in Crohn's disease (CD) patients but not in ulcerative colitis patients. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: These results indicate that IL-23-responsive ILCs are present in the human intestine and that intestinal inflammation in CD is associated with the selective accumulation of a phenotypically distinct ILC population characterized by inflammatory cytokine expression. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: ILCs may contribute to intestinal inflammation through cytokine production, lymphocyte recruitment, and organization of the inflammatory tissue and may represent a novel tissue-specific target for subtypes of IBD. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are immune cells that lack a specific antigen receptor yet can produce an array of effector cytokines that in variety match that of T helper cell subsets. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: ILCs function in lymphoid organogenesis, tissue remodeling, antimicrobial immunity, and inflammation, particularly at barrier surfaces. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Their ability to promptly respond to insults inflicted by stress-causing microbes strongly suggests that ILCs are critical in first-line immunological defenses. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: Here, we review current data on developmental requirements, lineage relationships, and effector functions of two families of ILCs: (a) Rorγt-expressing cells involved in lymphoid tissue formation, mucosal immunity, and inflammation and (b) type 2 ILCs that are important for helminth immunity. Relevant:
Query: Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. Document: We also discuss the potential roles of ILCs in the pathology of immune-mediated inflammatory and infectious diseases including allergy. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Apoptosis that proceeds via the mitochondrial pathway involves mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (MOMP), responsible for the release of cytochrome c and other proteins of the mitochondrial intermembrane space. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: This essential step is controlled and mediated by proteins of the Bcl-2 family. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: The proapoptotic proteins Bax and Bak are required for MOMP, while the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 proteins, including Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, Mcl-1, and others, prevent MOMP. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Different proapoptotic BH3-only proteins act to interfere with the function of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 members and/or activate Bax and Bak. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Here, we discuss an emerging view, proposed by Certo et al. in this issue of Cancer Cell, on how these interactions result in MOMP and apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: In this review I summarize interrelations between bioenergetic processes and such programmed death phenomena as cell suicide (apoptosis and necrosis) and mitochondrial suicide (mitoptosis). Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: The following conclusions are made. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: (I) ATP and rather often mitochondrial hyperpolarization (i.e. an increase in membrane potential, ΔΨ) are required for certain steps of apoptosis and necrosis. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: (II) Apoptosis, even if it is accompanied by ΔΨ and [ATP] increases at its early stage, finally results in a ΔΨ collapse and ATP decrease. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: (III) Moderate (about three-fold) lowering of [ATP] for short and long periods of time induces apoptosis and necrosis, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: In some types of apoptosis and necrosis, the cell death is mediated by a ΔΨ-dependent overproduction of ROS by the initial (Complex I) and the middle (Complex III) spans of the respiratory chain. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: ROS initiate mitoptosis which is postulated to rid the intracellular population of mitochondria from those that are ROS overproducing. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Massive mitoptosis can result in cell death due to release to cytosol of the cell death proteins normally hidden in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Vascular calcification is a strong independent predictor of increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and has a high prevalence among patients with chronic kidney disease. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: The present study investigated the effects of quercetin on vascular calcification caused by oxidative stress and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics both in vitro and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Calcifying vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) treated with inorganic phosphate (Pi) exhibited mitochondrial dysfunction, as demonstrated by decreased mitochondrial potential and ATP production. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Disruption of mitochondrial structural integrity was also observed in a rat model of adenine-induced aortic calcification. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Increased production of reactive oxygen species, enhanced expression and phosphorylation of Drp1, and excessive mitochondrial fragmentation were also observed in Pi-treated VSMCs. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: These effects were accompanied by mitochondria-dependent apoptotic events, including release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into the cytosol and subsequent activation of caspase-3. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Quercetin was shown to block Pi-induced apoptosis and calcification of VSMCs by inhibiting oxidative stress and decreasing mitochondrial fission by inhibiting the expression and phosphorylation of Drp1. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: Quercetin also significantly ameliorated adenine-induced aortic calcification in rats. Relevant:
Query: Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. Document: In summary, our findings suggest that quercetin attenuates calcification by reducing apoptosis of VSMCs by blocking oxidative stress and inhibiting mitochondrial fission. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Tight regulation of the expression of mRNAs encoding iron uptake proteins is essential to control iron homeostasis and avoid intracellular iron toxicity. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: We show that many mRNAs encoding iron uptake or iron mobilization proteins are expressed in iron-replete conditions in the absence of the S. cerevisiae RNase III ortholog Rnt1p or of the nuclear exosome component Rrp6p. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Extended forms of these mRNAs accumulate in the absence of Rnt1p or of the 5'-->3' exonucleases Xrn1p and Rat1p, showing that multiple degradative pathways contribute to the surveillance of aberrant forms of these transcripts. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: RNase III-deficient cells are hypersensitive to high iron concentrations, suggesting that Rnt1p-mediated RNA surveillance is required to prevent iron toxicity. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: These results show that RNA surveillance through multiple ribonucleolytic pathways plays a role in iron homeostasis in yeast to avoid the potentially toxic effects of the expression of the iron starvation response in iron-replete conditions. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is linked to both cigarette smoking and genetic determinants. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: We have previously identified iron-responsive element-binding protein 2 (IRP2) as an important COPD susceptibility gene and have shown that IRP2 protein is increased in the lungs of individuals with COPD. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Here we demonstrate that mice deficient in Irp2 were protected from cigarette smoke (CS)-induced experimental COPD. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: By integrating RNA immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (RIP-seq), RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and gene expression and functional enrichment clustering analysis, we identified Irp2 as a regulator of mitochondrial function in the lungs of mice. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Irp2 increased mitochondrial iron loading and levels of cytochrome c oxidase (COX), which led to mitochondrial dysfunction and subsequent experimental COPD. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Frataxin-deficient mice, which had higher mitochondrial iron loading, showed impaired airway mucociliary clearance (MCC) and higher pulmonary inflammation at baseline, whereas mice deficient in the synthesis of cytochrome c oxidase, which have reduced COX, were protected from CS-induced pulmonary inflammation and impairment of MCC. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Mice treated with a mitochondrial iron chelator or mice fed a low-iron diet were protected from CS-induced COPD. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Mitochondrial iron chelation also alleviated CS-induced impairment of MCC, CS-induced pulmonary inflammation and CS-associated lung injury in mice with established COPD, suggesting a critical functional role and potential therapeutic intervention for the mitochondrial-iron axis in COPD. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Many species of mycobacteria form structured biofilm communities at liquid–air interfaces and on solid surfaces. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Full development of Mycobacterium smegmatis biofilms requires addition of supplemental iron above 1 μM ferrous sulphate, although addition of iron is not needed for planktonic growth. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: Microarray analysis of the M. smegmatis transcriptome shows that iron-responsive genes – especially those involved in siderophore synthesis and iron uptake – are strongly induced during biofilm formation reflecting a response to iron deprivation, even when 2 μM iron is present. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: The acquisition of iron under these conditions is specifically dependent on the exochelin synthesis and uptake pathways, and the strong defect of an iron–exochelin uptake mutant suggests a regulatory role of iron in the transition to biofilm growth. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: In contrast, although the expression of mycobactin and iron ABC transport operons is highly upregulated during biofilm formation, mutants in these systems form normal biofilms in low-iron (2 μM) conditions. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: A close correlation between iron availability and matrix-associated fatty acids implies a possible metabolic role in the late stages of biofilm maturation, in addition to the early regulatory role. Relevant:
Query: Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. Document: M. smegmatis surface motility is similarly dependent on iron availability, requiring both supplemental iron and the exochelin pathway to acquire it. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: The male hypermethylated (MHM) region, located near the middle of the short arm of the Z chromosome of chickens, consists of approximately 210 tandem repeats of a BamHI 2.2-kb sequence unit. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: Cytosines of the CpG dinucleotides of this region are extensively methylated on the two Z chromosomes in the male but much less methylated on the single Z chromosome in the female. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: The state of methylation of the MHM region is established after fertilization by about the 1-day embryonic stage. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: The MHM region is transcribed only in the female from the particular strand into heterogeneous, high molecular-mass, non-coding RNA, which is accumulated at the site of transcription, adjacent to the DMRT1 locus, in the nucleus. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: The transcriptional silence of the MHM region in the male is most likely caused by the CpG methylation, since treatment of the male embryonic fibroblasts with 5-azacytidine results in hypo-methylation and active transcription of this region. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: In ZZW triploid chickens, MHM regions are hypomethylated and transcribed on the two Z chromosomes, whereas MHM regions are hypermethylated and transcriptionally inactive on the three Z chromosomes in ZZZ triploid chickens, suggesting a possible role of the W chromosome on the state of the MHM region. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: The available evidence suggests that the lethality of glioblastoma is driven by small subpopulations of cells that self-renew and exhibit tumorigenicity. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: It remains unclear whether tumorigenicity exists as a static property of a few cells or as a dynamically acquired property. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: We used tumor-sphere and xenograft formation as assays for tumorigenicity and examined subclones isolated from established and primary glioblastoma lines. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: Our results indicate that glioblastoma tumorigenicity is largely deterministic, yet the property can be acquired spontaneously at low frequencies. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: Further, these dynamic transitions are governed by epigenetic reprogramming through the lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1). Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: LSD depletion increases trimethylation of histone 3 lysine 4 at the avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (MYC) locus, which elevates MYC expression. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: MYC, in turn, regulates oligodendrocyte lineage transcription factor 2 (OLIG2), SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 2 (SOX2), and POU class 3 homeobox 2 (POU3F2), a core set of transcription factors required for reprogramming glioblastoma cells into stem-like states. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: Our model suggests epigenetic regulation of key transcription factors governs transitions between tumorigenic states and provides a framework for glioblastoma therapeutic development. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: PURPOSE OF REVIEW Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal disease with limited treatment options and extensive gene expression changes identified in the lung parenchyma. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: Multiple lines of evidence suggest that epigenetic factors contribute to dysregulation of gene expression in IPF lung. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: Most importantly, risk factors that predispose to IPF - age, sex, cigarette smoke, and genetic variants - all influence epigenetic marks. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: This review summarizes recent findings of association of DNA methylation and histone modifications with the presence of disease and fibroproliferation. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: RECENT FINDINGS In addition to targeted studies focused on specific gene loci, genome-wide profiles of DNA methylation demonstrate widespread DNA methylation changes in IPF lung tissue and a substantial effect of these methylation changes on gene expression. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: Genetic loci that have been recently associated with IPF also contain differentially methylated regions, suggesting that genetic and epigenetic factors act in concert to dysregulate gene expression in IPF lung. Relevant:
Query: DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. Document: SUMMARY Although we are in very early stages of understanding the role of epigenetics in IPF, the potential for the use of epigenetic marks as biomarkers and therapeutic targets is high and discoveries made in this field will likely bring us closer to better prognosticating and treating this fatal disease. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: BACKGROUND Genlisea aurea (Lentibulariaceae) is a carnivorous plant with unusually small genome size - 63.6 Mb - one of the smallest known among higher plants. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Data on the genome sizes and the phylogeny of Genlisea suggest that this is a derived state within the genus. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Thus, G. aurea is an excellent model organism for studying evolutionary mechanisms of genome contraction. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: RESULTS Here we report sequencing and de novo draft assembly of G. aurea genome. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: The assembly consists of 10,687 contigs of the total length of 43.4 Mb and includes 17,755 complete and partial protein-coding genes. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Its comparison with the genome of Mimulus guttatus, another representative of higher core Lamiales clade, reveals striking differences in gene content and length of non-coding regions. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: CONCLUSIONS Genome contraction was a complex process, which involved gene loss and reduction of lengths of introns and intergenic regions, but not intron loss. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: The gene loss is more frequent for the genes that belong to multigenic families indicating that genetic redundancy is an important prerequisite for genome size reduction. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Next-generation-sequencing (NGS) has revolutionized the field of genome assembly because of its much higher data throughput and much lower cost compared with traditional Sanger sequencing. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: However, NGS poses new computational challenges to de novo genome assembly. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Among the challenges, GC bias in NGS data is known to aggravate genome assembly. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: However, it is not clear to what extent GC bias affects genome assembly in general. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: In this work, we conduct a systematic analysis on the effects of GC bias on genome assembly. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Our analyses reveal that GC bias only lowers assembly completeness when the degree of GC bias is above a threshold. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: At a strong GC bias, the assembly fragmentation due to GC bias can be explained by the low coverage of reads in the GC-poor or GC-rich regions of a genome. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: This effect is observed for all the assemblers under study. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Increasing the total amount of NGS data thus rescues the assembly fragmentation because of GC bias. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: However, the amount of data needed for a full rescue depends on the distribution of GC contents. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Both low and high coverage depths due to GC bias lower the accuracy of assembly. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: These pieces of information provide guidance toward a better de novo genome assembly in the presence of GC bias. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: BACKGROUND RNA-Seq is revolutionizing the way transcript abundances are measured. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: A key challenge in transcript quantification from RNA-Seq data is the handling of reads that map to multiple genes or isoforms. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: This issue is particularly important for quantification with de novo transcriptome assemblies in the absence of sequenced genomes, as it is difficult to determine which transcripts are isoforms of the same gene. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: A second significant issue is the design of RNA-Seq experiments, in terms of the number of reads, read length, and whether reads come from one or both ends of cDNA fragments. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: RESULTS We present RSEM, an user-friendly software package for quantifying gene and isoform abundances from single-end or paired-end RNA-Seq data. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: RSEM outputs abundance estimates, 95% credibility intervals, and visualization files and can also simulate RNA-Seq data. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: In contrast to other existing tools, the software does not require a reference genome. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Thus, in combination with a de novo transcriptome assembler, RSEM enables accurate transcript quantification for species without sequenced genomes. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: On simulated and real data sets, RSEM has superior or comparable performance to quantification methods that rely on a reference genome. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: Taking advantage of RSEM's ability to effectively use ambiguously-mapping reads, we show that accurate gene-level abundance estimates are best obtained with large numbers of short single-end reads. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: On the other hand, estimates of the relative frequencies of isoforms within single genes may be improved through the use of paired-end reads, depending on the number of possible splice forms for each gene. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: CONCLUSIONS RSEM is an accurate and user-friendly software tool for quantifying transcript abundances from RNA-Seq data. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: As it does not rely on the existence of a reference genome, it is particularly useful for quantification with de novo transcriptome assemblies. Relevant:
Query: De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. Document: In addition, RSEM has enabled valuable guidance for cost-efficient design of quantification experiments with RNA-Seq, which is currently relatively expensive. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: CEM15/APOBEC3G is a cellular protein required for resistance to infection by virion infectivity factor (Vif)-deficient human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: Here, using a murine leukemia virus (MLV)-based system, we provide evidence that CEM15/APOBEC3G is a DNA deaminase that is incorporated into virions during viral production and subsequently triggers massive deamination of deoxycytidine to deoxyuridine within the retroviral minus (first)-strand cDNA, thus providing a probable trigger for viral destruction. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: Furthermore, HIV Vif can protect MLV from this CEM15/APOBEC3G-dependent restriction. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: These findings imply that targeted DNA deamination is a major strategy of innate immunity to retroviruses and likely also contributes to the sequence variation observed in many viruses (including HIV). Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: High mutation frequency during reverse transcription has a principal role in the genetic variation of primate lentiviral populations. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: It is the main driving force for the generation of drug resistance and the escape from immune surveillance. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: G to A hypermutation is one of the characteristics of primate lentiviruses, as well as other retroviruses, during replication in vivo and in cell culture. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: The molecular mechanisms of this process, however, remain to be clarified. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: Here, we demonstrate that CEM15 (also known as apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G; APOBEC3G), an endogenous inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication, is a cytidine deaminase and is able to induce G to A hypermutation in newly synthesized viral DNA. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: This effect can be counteracted by the HIV-1 virion infectivity factor (Vif). Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: It seems that this viral DNA mutator is a viral defence mechanism in host cells that may induce either lethal hypermutation or instability of the incoming nascent viral reverse transcripts, which could account for the Vif-defective phenotype. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: Importantly, the accumulation of CEM15-mediated non-lethal hypermutation in the replicating viral genome could potently contribute to the genetic variation of primate lentiviral populations. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: Viral replication usually requires that innate intracellular lines of defence be overcome, a task usually accomplished by specialized viral gene products. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: The virion infectivity factor (Vif) protein of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is required during the late stages of viral production to counter the antiviral activity of APOBEC3G (apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G; also known as CEM15), a protein expressed notably in human T lymphocytes. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: When produced in the presence of APOBEC3G, vif-defective virus is non-infectious. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: APOBEC3G is closely related to APOBEC1, the central component of an RNA-editing complex that deaminates a cytosine residue in apoB messenger RNA. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: APOBEC family members also have potent DNA mutator activity through dC deamination; however, whether the editing potential of APOBEC3G has any relevance to HIV inhibition is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: Here, we demonstrate that it does, as APOBEC3G exerts its antiviral effect during reverse transcription to trigger G-to-A hypermutation in the nascent retroviral DNA. Relevant:
Query: Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. Document: We also find that APOBEC3G can act on a broad range of retroviruses in addition to HIV, suggesting that hypermutation by editing is a general innate defence mechanism against this important group of pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: IL-17 is a novel, CD4+ T cell-restricted cytokine. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: In vivo, it stimulates hematopoiesis and causes neutrophilia consisting of mature granulocytes. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: In this study, we show that IL-17-mediated granulopoiesis requires G-CSF release and the presence or induction of the transmembrane form of stem cell factor (SCF) for optimal granulopoiesis. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: However, IL-17 also protects mice from G-CSF neutralization-induced neutropenia. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: G-CSF neutralization completely reversed IL-17-induced BM progenitor expansion, whereas splenic CFU-GM/CFU-granulocyte-erythrocyte-megakaryocyte-monocyte was only reduced by 50% in both Sl/Sld and littermate control mice. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Thus, there remained a significant SCF/G-CSF-independent effect of IL-17 on splenic granulopoiesis, resulting in a preservation of mature circulating granulocytes. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: IL-17 is a cytokine that potentially interconnects lymphocytic and myeloid host defense and may have potential for therapeutic development. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: The PI3K-Akt-mTORC1 axis contributes to the activation, survival, and proliferation of CD4(+) T cells upon stimulation through TCR and CD28. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Here, we demonstrate that the suppression of this axis by deletion of p85α or PI3K/mTORC1 inhibitors as well as T cell-specific deletion of raptor, an essential component of mTORC1, impairs Th17 differentiation in vitro and in vivo in a S6K1/2-dependent fashion. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Inhibition of PI3K-Akt-mTORC1-S6K1 axis impairs the downregulation of Gfi1, a negative regulator of Th17 differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Furthermore, we demonstrate that S6K2, a nuclear counterpart of S6K1, is induced by the PI3K-Akt-mTORC1 axis, binds RORγ, and carries RORγ to the nucleus. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: These results point toward a pivotal role of PI3K-Akt-mTORC1-S6K1/2 axis in Th17 differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) play critical roles in primary and metastatic cancer progression. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: MDSC regulation is widely variable even among patients harbouring the same type of malignancy, and the mechanisms governing such heterogeneity are largely unknown. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Here, integrating human tumour genomics and syngeneic mammary tumour models, we demonstrate that mTOR signalling in cancer cells dictates a mammary tumour's ability to stimulate MDSC accumulation through regulating G-CSF. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Inhibiting this pathway or its activators (for example, FGFR) impairs tumour progression, which is partially rescued by restoring MDSCs or G-CSF. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Tumour-initiating cells (TICs) exhibit elevated G-CSF. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: MDSCs reciprocally increase TIC frequency through activating Notch in tumour cells, forming a feedforward loop. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: Analyses of primary breast cancers and patient-derived xenografts corroborate these mechanisms in patients. Relevant:
Query: Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. Document: These findings establish a non-canonical oncogenic role of mTOR signalling in recruiting pro-tumorigenic MDSCs and show how defined cancer subsets may evolve to promote and depend on a distinct immune microenvironment. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Regulatory T (Treg) cells play a pivotal role in suppressing self-harmful T cell responses, but how Treg cells mediate suppression to maintain immune homeostasis and limit responses during inflammation is unclear. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Here we show that effector Treg cells express high amounts of the integrin αvβ8, which enables them to activate latent transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Treg-cell-specific deletion of integrin αvβ8 did not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype, suggesting that this pathway is not important in Treg-cell-mediated maintenance of immune homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: However, Treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic T cell responses during active inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Thus, our results identify a mechanism by which Treg cells suppress exuberant immune responses, highlighting a key role for effector Treg-cell-mediated activation of latent TGF-β in suppression of self-harmful T cell responses during active inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: V domain-containing Ig suppressor of T-cell activation (VISTA) is a negative checkpoint regulator that suppresses T cell-mediated immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Previous studies using a VISTA-neutralizing monoclonal antibody show that VISTA blockade enhances T-cell activation. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: The current study describes a comprehensive characterization of mice in which the gene for VISTA has been deleted. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Despite the apparent normal hematopoietic development in young mice, VISTA genetic deficiency leads to a gradual accumulation of spontaneously activated T cells, accompanied by the production of a spectrum of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Enhanced T-cell responsiveness was also observed upon immunization with neoantigen. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Despite the presence of multiorgan chronic inflammation, aged VISTA-deficient mice did not develop systemic or organ-specific autoimmune disease. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Interbreeding of the VISTA-deficient mice with 2D2 T-cell receptor transgenic mice, which are predisposed to the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, drastically enhanced disease incidence and intensity. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Disease development is correlated with the increase in the activation of encephalitogenic T cells in the periphery and enhanced infiltration into the CNS. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Taken together, our data suggest that VISTA is a negative checkpoint regulator whose loss of function lowers the threshold for T-cell activation, allowing for an enhanced proinflammatory phenotype and an increase in the frequency and intensity of autoimmunity under susceptible conditions. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Protease-activated receptor-2 (PAR-2) is a G-protein-coupled receptor activated through proteolytic cleavage. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: It is localized on epithelial, endothelial and inflammatory cells, as well as on transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) receptor-expressing neurones. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: It plays an important role in inflammatory/nociceptive processes. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Since there are few reports concerning PAR-2 function in joints, the effects of intraarticular PAR-2 activation on joint pain and inflammation were studied. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Secondary hyperalgesia/allodynia, spontaneous weight distribution, swelling and inflammatory cytokine production were measured and the involvement of TRPV1 ion channels was investigated in rats and mice. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Injection of the PAR-2 receptor agonist SLIGRL-NH(2) into the knee decreased touch sensitivity and weight bearing of the ipsilateral hindlimb in both species. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Secondary mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia and impaired weight distribution were significantly reduced by the TRPV1 antagonist SB366791 in rats and by the genetic deletion of this receptor in mice. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: PAR-2 activation did not cause significant joint swelling, but increased IL-1beta concentration which was not influenced by the lack of the TRPV1 channel. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: For comparison, intraplantar SLIGRL-NH(2) evoked similar primary mechanical hyperalgesia and impaired weight distribution in both WT and TRPV1 deficient mice, but oedema was smaller in the knockouts. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: The inactive peptide, LRGILS-NH(2), injected into either site did not induce any inflammatory or nociceptive changes. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: These data provide evidence for a significant role of TRPV1 receptors in secondary mechanical hyperalgesia/allodynia and spontaneous pain induced by PAR-2 receptor activation in the knee joint. Relevant:
Query: Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. Document: Although intraplantar PAR-2 activation-induced oedema is also TRPV1 receptor-mediated, primary mechanical hyperalgesia, impaired weight distribution and IL-1beta production are independent of this channel. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: CONTEXT Dexamethasone is widely used to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) in pediatric tonsillectomy. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess whether dexamethasone dose-dependently reduces the risk of PONV at 24 hours after tonsillectomy. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Randomized placebo-controlled trial conducted among 215 children undergoing elective tonsillectomy at a major public teaching hospital in Switzerland from February 2005 to December 2007. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: INTERVENTIONS Children were randomly assigned to receive dexamethasone (0.05, 0.15, or 0.5 mg/kg) or placebo intravenously after induction of anesthesia. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Acetaminophen-codeine and ibuprofen were given as postoperative analgesia. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Follow-up continued until the 10th postoperative day. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary end point was prevention of PONV at 24 hours; secondary end points were decrease in the need for ibuprofen at 24 hours and evaluation of adverse effects. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: RESULTS At 24 hours, 24 of 54 participants who received placebo (44%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 31%-59%) had experienced PONV compared with 20 of 53 (38%; 95% CI, 25%-52%), 13 of 54 (24%; 95% CI, 13%-38%), and 6 of 52 (12%; 95% CI, 4%-23%) who received dexamethasone at 0.05, 0.15, and 0.5 mg/kg, respectively (P<.001 for linear trend). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Children who received dexamethasone received significantly less ibuprofen. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: There were 26 postoperative bleeding episodes in 22 children. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Two of 53 (4%; 95% CI, 0.5%-13%) Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: children who received placebo had bleeding compared with 6 of 53 (11%; 95% CI, 4%-23%), 2 of 51 (4%; 95% CI, 0.5%-13%), and 12 of 50 (24%; 95% CI, 13%-38%) who received dexamethasone at 0.05, 0.15, and 0.5 mg/kg, respectively (P = .003). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Dexamethasone, 0.5 mg/kg, was associated with the highest bleeding risk (adjusted relative risk, 6.80; 95% CI, 1.77-16.5). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Eight children had to undergo emergency reoperation because of bleeding, all of whom had received dexamethasone. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: The trial was stopped early for safety reasons. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: CONCLUSION In this study of children undergoing tonsillectomy, dexamethasone decreased the risk of PONV dose dependently but was associated with an increased risk of postoperative bleeding. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00403806. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: We evaluated the effect of dexamethasone on vomiting after elective tonsillectomy in 133 healthy children aged 2-12 yr in a randomized, stratified, blocked, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: General anesthesia was induced by inhalation of N2O and halothane or intravenously (IV) with propofol. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Anesthesia was maintained with N2O and halothane. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Dexamethasone 150 micrograms/kg up to a maximum dose of 8 mg, or placebo, was administered IV before surgery. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: All patients received 1.5 mg/kg codeine intramuscularly (IM) intraoperatively. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Perioperative IV fluids, management of emesis, postoperative pain and hospital discharge criteria were all standardized. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: The groups were similar with respect to number, age, weight, length of surgery, and estimated intraoperative blood loss. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Dexamethasone reduced the overall incidence of vomiting from 72% (placebo) to 40% (P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Vomiting, both in-hospital and postdischarge, was decreased by the prophylactic administration of dexamethasone. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Each episode of in-hospital vomiting prolonged discharge by 13 +/- Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: 2 min, mean +/- Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: SD (P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: In conclusion, dexamethasone markedly decreased vomiting by healthy children after elective tonsillectomy in an ambulatory hospital setting. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: OBJECTIVE The effects of hydroxyethyl starch on bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass were determined. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: METHODS A meta-analysis was performed of postoperative blood loss in randomized clinical trials of hydroxyethyl starch versus albumin for fluid management in adult cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Impacts of hydroxyethyl starch molecular weight and molar substitution were assessed. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Randomized trials directly comparing different hydroxyethyl starch solutions were also included. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: RESULTS Eighteen trials with 970 total patients were included. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Compared with albumin, hydroxyethyl starch increased postoperative blood loss by 33.3% of a pooled SD (95% confidence interval, 18.2%-48.3%; P < .001). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Risk of reoperation for bleeding was more than doubled by hydroxyethyl starch (relative risk, 2.24; 95% confidence interval, 1.14-4.40; P = .020). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Hydroxyethyl starch increased transfusion of red blood cells by 28.4% of a pooled SD (95% confidence interval, 12.2%-44.6%; P < .001), of fresh-frozen plasma by 30.6% (95% confidence interval, 8.0%-53.1%; P = .008), and of platelets by 29.8% (95% confidence interval, 3.4%-56.2%; P = .027). Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: None of these effects differed significantly between hydroxyethyl starch 450/0.7 and 200/0.5. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Insufficient data were available for hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 versus albumin; however, no significant differences were detected in head-to-head comparisons of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 with 200/0.5. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: Albumin improved hemodynamics. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: There were no differences in fluid balance, ventilator time, intensive care unit stay, or mortality. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: CONCLUSIONS Hydroxyethyl starch increased blood loss, reoperation for bleeding, and blood product transfusion after cardiopulmonary bypass. Relevant:
Query: Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. Document: There was no evidence that these risks could be mitigated by lower molecular weight and substitution. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: BACKGROUND P2Y12 inhibitor switching has appeared in clinical practice as a consequence of prasugrel and ticagrelor availability, apart from clopidogrel, for use in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: METHODS In the context of the GReek AntiPlatelet REgistry (GRAPE) we assessed the prevalence, predictive factors and short-term outcome of in-hospital P2Y12 inhibitor switching in 1794 ACS patients undergoing PCI. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: RESULTS Switching occurred in 636 (35.5%) patients of which in the form of clopidogrel to a novel agent, novel agent to clopidogrel and between prasugrel and ticagrelor in 574 (90.4%), 34 (5.3%) and 27 (4.3%) patients, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Presentation to non PCI-capable hospital, bivalirudin use, age ≥75 years (inverse predictor), and regional trends emerged as predictive factors of switching to a novel agent. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: At combined in-hospital and one-month follow-up, propensity matched pairs analysis showed no differences in major adverse cardiovascular (MACE) or bleeding events between switching from clopidogrel to a novel agent vs novel agent constant administration. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: More Bleeding Academic Research Consortium type 1, type 2 and any type events and fewer MACE were seen when switching from clopidogrel to a novel agent vs only clopidogrel administration (23.7%, 3.8%, 30.6%, 1.2% vs 8.9%, 1.2%, 12.0%, 3.8% with P < .001, P = .03, P < .001 and P = .03 respectively). Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: CONCLUSIONS In a real-life experience with contemporary antiplatelet treatment in ACS patients undergoing PCI, in-hospital switching represents common clinical practice. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Clinical factors and regional practice differences seem to affect this strategy's choice, while switching to a novel agent may be associated with higher risk of bleeding. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: BACKGROUND Although unstable coronary artery disease is the most common reason for admission to a coronary care unit, the long-term prognosis of patients with this diagnosis is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: This is particularly true for patients with diabetes mellitus, who are known to have a high morbidity and mortality after an acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS Prospectively collected data from 6 different countries in the Organization to Assess Strategies for Ischemic Syndromes (OASIS) registry were analyzed to determine the 2-year prognosis of diabetic and nondiabetic patients who were hospitalized with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Overall, 1718 of 8013 registry patients (21%) had diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Diabetic patients had a higher rate of coronary bypass surgery than nondiabetic patients (23% versus 20%, P:<0.001) but had similar rates of catheterization and angioplasty. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Diabetes independently predicted mortality (relative risk [RR], 1.57; 95% CI, 1.38 to 1.81; P:<0.001), as well as cardiovascular death, new myocardial infarction, stroke, and new congestive heart failure. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Moreover, compared with their nondiabetic counterparts, women had a significantly higher risk than men (RR, 1.98; 95% CI, 1.60 to 2.44; and RR, 1.28; 95% CI, 1.06 to 1.56, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Interestingly, diabetic patients without prior cardiovascular disease had the same event rates for all outcomes as nondiabetic patients with previous vascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: CONCLUSIONS Hospitalization for unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction predicts a high 2-year morbidity and mortality; this is especially evident for patients with diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: Diabetic patients with no previous cardiovascular disease have the same long-term morbidity and mortality as nondiabetic patients with established cardiovascular disease after hospitalization for unstable coronary artery disease. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: AIMS patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) have high platelet reactivity and are at increased risk of ischaemic events and bleeding post-acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: In the PLATelet inhibition and patient Outcomes (PLATO) trial, ticagrelor reduced the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke, but with similar rates of major bleeding compared with clopidogrel. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: We aimed to investigate the outcome with ticagrelor vs. clopidogrel in patients with DM or poor glycaemic control. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS we analysed patients with pre-existing DM (n = 4662), including 1036 patients on insulin, those without DM (n = 13 951), and subgroups based on admission levels of haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c; n = 15 150). Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: In patients with DM, the reduction in the primary composite endpoint (HR: 0.88, 95% CI: 0.76-1.03), all-cause mortality (HR: 0.82, 95% CI: 0.66-1.01), and stent thrombosis (HR: 0.65, 95% CI: 0.36-1.17) with no increase in major bleeding (HR: 0.95, 95% CI: 0.81-1.12) with ticagrelor was consistent with the overall cohort and without significant diabetes status-by-treatment interactions. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: There was no heterogeneity between patients with or without ongoing insulin treatment. Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: ticagrelor reduced the primary endpoint, all-cause mortality, and stent thrombosis in patients with HbA1c above the median (HR: 0.80, 95% CI: 0.70-0.91; HR: 0.78, 95% CI: 0.65-0.93; and HR: 0.62, 95% CI: 0.39-1.00, respectively) with similar bleeding rates (HR: 0.98, 95% CI: 0.86-1.12). Relevant:
Query: Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. Document: CONCLUSION ticagrelor, when compared with clopidogrel, reduced ischaemic events in ACS patients irrespective of diabetic status and glycaemic control, without an increase in major bleeding events. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: In bacterial translational initiation, three initiation factors (IFs 1-3) enable the selection of initiator tRNA and the start codon in the P site of the 30S ribosomal subunit. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: Here, we report 11 single-particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) reconstructions of the complex of bacterial 30S subunit with initiator tRNA, mRNA, and IFs 1-3, representing different steps along the initiation pathway. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: IF1 provides key anchoring points for IF2 and IF3, thereby enhancing their activities. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: IF2 positions a domain in an extended conformation appropriate for capturing the formylmethionyl moiety charged on tRNA. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: IF3 and tRNA undergo large conformational changes to facilitate the accommodation of the formylmethionyl-tRNA (fMet-tRNA(fMet)) into the P site for start codon recognition. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: The small ribosomal subunit is responsible for the decoding of genetic information and plays a key role in the initiation of protein synthesis. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: We analyzed by X-ray crystallography the structures of three different complexes of the small ribosomal subunit of Thermus thermophilus with the A-site inhibitor tetracycline, the universal initiation inhibitor edeine and the C-terminal domain of the translation initiation factor IF3. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: The crystal structure analysis of the complex with tetracycline revealed the functionally important site responsible for the blockage of the A-site. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: Five additional tetracycline sites resolve most of the controversial biochemical data on the location of tetracycline. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: The interaction of edeine with the small subunit indicates its role in inhibiting initiation and shows its involvement with P-site tRNA. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: The location of the C-terminal domain of IF3, at the solvent side of the platform, sheds light on the formation of the initiation complex, and implies that the anti-association activity of IF3 is due to its influence on the conformational dynamics of the small ribosomal subunit. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: In eukaryotes, accurate protein synthesis relies on a family of translational GTPases that pair with specific decoding factors to decipher the mRNA code on ribosomes. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: We present structures of the mammalian ribosome engaged with decoding factor⋅GTPase complexes representing intermediates of translation elongation (aminoacyl-tRNA⋅eEF1A), termination (eRF1⋅eRF3), and ribosome rescue (Pelota⋅Hbs1l). Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: Comparative analyses reveal that each decoding factor exploits the plasticity of the ribosomal decoding center to differentially remodel ribosomal proteins and rRNA. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: This leads to varying degrees of large-scale ribosome movements and implies distinct mechanisms for communicating information from the decoding center to each GTPase. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: Additional structural snapshots of the translation termination pathway reveal the conformational changes that choreograph the accommodation of decoding factors into the peptidyl transferase center. Relevant:
Query: Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. Document: Our results provide a structural framework for how different states of the mammalian ribosome are selectively recognized by the appropriate decoding factor⋅GTPase complex to ensure translational fidelity. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Loss of cell polarity proteins such as Scribble induces neoplasia in Drosophila by promoting uncontrolled proliferation. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: In mammals, the role that polarity proteins play during tumorigenesis is not well understood. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Here, we demonstrate that depletion of Scribble in mammary epithelia disrupts cell polarity, blocks three-dimensional morphogenesis, inhibits apoptosis, and induces dysplasia in vivo that progress to tumors after long latency. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Loss of Scribble cooperates with oncogenes such as c-myc to transform epithelial cells and induce tumors in vivo by blocking activation of an apoptosis pathway. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Like depletion, mislocalization of Scribble from cell-cell junction was sufficient to promote cell transformation. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Interestingly, spontaneous mammary tumors in mice and humans possess both downregulated and mislocalized Scribble. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Thus, we demonstrate that scribble inhibits breast cancer formation and that deregulation of polarity pathways promotes dysplastic and neoplastic growth in mammals by disrupting morphogenesis and inhibiting cell death. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: A long-standing hypothesis on tumorigenesis is that cell division failure, generating genetically unstable tetraploid cells, facilitates the development of aneuploid malignancies. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Here we test this idea by transiently blocking cytokinesis in p53-null (p53-/-) mouse mammary epithelial cells (MMECs), enabling the isolation of diploid and tetraploid cultures. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: The tetraploid cells had an increase in the frequency of whole-chromosome mis-segregation and chromosomal rearrangements. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Only the tetraploid cells were transformed in vitro after exposure to a carcinogen. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Furthermore, in the absence of carcinogen, only the tetraploid cells gave rise to malignant mammary epithelial cancers when transplanted subcutaneously into nude mice. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: These tumours all contained numerous non-reciprocal translocations and an 8–30-fold amplification of a chromosomal region containing a cluster of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) genes. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: MMP overexpression is linked to mammary tumours in humans and animal models. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Thus, tetraploidy enhances the frequency of chromosomal alterations and promotes tumour development in p53-/- MMECs. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a key developmental program that is often activated during cancer invasion and metastasis. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: We here report that the induction of an EMT in immortalized human mammary epithelial cells (HMLEs) results in the acquisition of mesenchymal traits and in the expression of stem-cell markers. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Furthermore, we show that those cells have an increased ability to form mammospheres, a property associated with mammary epithelial stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Independent of this, stem cell-like cells isolated from HMLE cultures form mammospheres and express markers similar to those of HMLEs that have undergone an EMT. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Moreover, stem-like cells isolated either from mouse or human mammary glands or mammary carcinomas express EMT markers. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: Finally, transformed human mammary epithelial cells that have undergone an EMT form mammospheres, soft agar colonies, and tumors more efficiently. Relevant:
Query: Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. Document: These findings illustrate a direct link between the EMT and the gain of epithelial stem cell properties. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: The human tuberculous granuloma provides the morphological basis for local immune processes central to the outcome of tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Because of the scarcity of information in human patients, the aim of the present study was to gain insights into the functional and structural properties of infiltrated tissue. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: To this end, the mycobacterial load in lesions and dissemination to different tissue locations were investigated, as well as distribution, biological functions, and interactions of host immune cells. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Analysis of early granuloma formation in formerly healthy lung tissue revealed a spatio-temporal sequence of cellular infiltration to sites of mycobacterial infection. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: A general structure of the developing granuloma was identified, comprising an inner cell layer with few CD8(+) cells surrounding the necrotic centre and an outer area of lymphocyte infiltration harbouring mycobacteria-containing antigen-presenting cells as well as CD4(+), CD8(+), and B cells in active follicle-like centres resembling secondary lymphoid organs. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: It is concluded that the follicular structures in the peripheral rim of granulomas serve as a morphological substrate for the orchestration of the enduring host response in pulmonary tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Humoral immune responses depend on B cells encountering antigen, interacting with helper T cells, proliferating and differentiating into low-affinity plasma cells or, after organizing into a germinal center (GC), high-affinity plasma cells and memory B cells. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Remarkably, each of these events occurs in association with distinct stromal cells in separate subcompartments of the lymphoid tissue. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: B cells must migrate from niche to niche in a rapid and highly regulated manner to successfully mount a response. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: The chemokine, CXCL13, plays a central role in guiding B cells to follicles whereas T-zone chemokines guide activated B cells to the T zone. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) promotes cell egress from the tissue, as well as marginal-zone B-cell positioning in the spleen. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Recent studies have identified a role for the orphan receptor, EBV-induced molecule 2 (EBI2; GPR183), in guiding activated B cells to inter and outer follicular niche(s) and down-regulation of this receptor is essential for organizing cells into GCs. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: In this review, we discuss current understanding of the roles played by chemokines, S1P and EBI2 in the migration events that underlie humoral immune responses. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: EBI2, aka GPR183, is a G-couple receptor originally identified in 1993 as one of main genes induced in Burkitt's lymphoma cell line BL41 by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: After it was reported in 2009 that the receptor played a key role in regulating B cell migration and responses, we initiated an effort in looking for its endogenous ligand. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: In 2011 we and another group reported the identification of 7α, 25-dihydroxyxcholesterol (7α, 25-OHC), an oxysterol, as the likely physiological ligand of EBI2. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: A few subsequently published studies further elucidated how 7α, 25-OHC bound to EBI2, and how a gradient of 7α, 25-OHC could be generated in vivo and regulated migration, activation, and functions of B cells, T cells, dendritic cells (DCs), monocytes/macrophages, and astrocytes. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: The identification of 7α, 25-OHC as a G protein-coupled receptor ligand revealed a previously unknown signaling system of oxysterols, a class of molecules which exert profound biological functions. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Dysregulation of the synthesis or functions of these molecules is believed to contribute to inflammation and autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, cancer as well as metabolic diseases such as diabetes, obesity, and dyslipidemia. Relevant:
Query: During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. Document: Therefore EBI2 may represent a promising target for therapeutic interventions for human diseases. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Inflammation induced by recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns markedly affects subsequent adaptive responses. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: We asked whether the adaptive immune system can also affect the character and magnitude of innate inflammatory responses. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: We found that the response of memory, but not naive, CD4+ T cells enhances production of multiple innate inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (IICs) in the lung and that, during influenza infection, this leads to early control of virus. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Memory CD4+ T cell–induced IICs and viral control require cognate antigen recognition and are optimal when memory cells are either T helper type 1 (TH1) or TH17 polarized but are independent of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) production and do not require activation of conserved pathogen recognition pathways. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: This represents a previously undescribed mechanism by which memory CD4+ T cells induce an early innate response that enhances immune protection against pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: RSV lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) are among the most common diseases necessitating hospital admission in children. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: In addition to causing acute respiratory failure, RSV infections are associated with sequelae such as secondary bacterial infections and reactive airway disease. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: One characteristic host response observed in severe RSV-induced LRTI and/or subsequent development of asthma is increased expression of interleukin (IL)-10. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: However, contradictory results have been reported regarding whether IL-10 inhibits asthmatic responses or intensifies the disease. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: We aimed to reconcile these discordant observations by elucidating the role of IL-10 in regulating the host response to RSV LRTI. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: In this study, we used a lung-specific, inducible IL-10 over-expression (OE) transgenic mouse model to address this question. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Our results showed that the presence of IL-10 at the time of RSV infection not only attenuated acute inflammatory process (i.e. 24 h post-infection), but also late inflammatory changes [characterized by T helper type 2 (Th2) cytokine and chemokine expression]. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: While this result appears contradictory to some clinical observations where elevated IL-10 levels are observed in asthmatic patients, we also found that delaying IL-10 OE until the late immune response to RSV infection, additive effects rather than inhibitory effects were observed. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Importantly, in non-infected, IL-10 OE mice, IL-10 OE alone induced up-regulation of Th2 cytokine (IL-13 and IL-5) and Th2-related chemokine [monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 3 (CCL3) and regulated upon activation normal T cell expressed and secreted (RANTES)] expression. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: We identified a subset of CD11b(+)CD11c(+)CD49b(+)F4/80(-)Gr-1(-) myeloid cells as a prinicipal source of IL-10-induced IL-13 production. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Therefore, the augmented pathological responses observed in our 'delayed' IL-10 over-expression model could be attributed to IL-10 OE alone. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Taken together, our study indicated dual roles of IL-10 on RSV-induced lung inflammation which appear to depend upon the timing of when elevated IL-10 is expressed in the lung. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Interleukin-10 (IL-10) suppresses the maturation and cytokine production of dendritic cells (DCs), key regulators of adaptive immunity, and prevents the activation and polarization of naïve T cells towards protective gamma interferon-producing effectors. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: We hypothesized that human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) utilizes its viral IL-10 homolog (cmvIL-10) to attenuate DC functionality, thereby subverting the efficient induction of antiviral immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: RNA and protein analyses demonstrated that the cmvIL-10 gene was expressed with late gene kinetics. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Treatment of immature DCs (iDCs) with supernatant from HCMV-infected cultures inhibited both the lipopolysaccharide-induced DC maturation and proinflammatory cytokine production. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: These inhibitory effects were specifically mediated through the IL-10 receptor and were not observed when DCs were treated with supernatant of cells infected with a cmvIL-10-knockout mutant. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Incubation of iDCs with recombinant cmvIL-10 recapitulated the inhibition of maturation. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Furthermore, cmvIL-10 had pronounced long-term effects on those DCs that could overcome this inhibition of maturation. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: It enhanced the migration of mature DCs (mDCs) towards the lymph node homing chemokine but greatly reduced their cytokine production. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: The inability of mDCs to secrete IL-12 was maintained, even when they were restimulated by the activated T-cell signal CD40 ligand in the absence of cmvIL-10. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Importantly, cmvIL-10 potentiates these anti-inflammatory effects, at least partially, by inducing endogenous cellular IL-10 expression in DCs. Relevant:
Query: Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. Document: Collectively, we show that cmvIL-10 causes long-term functional alterations at all stages of DC activation. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Problem Samoa has been struggling to address the burden of noncommunicable diseases at the health system, community and individual levels. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Approach The World Health Organization (WHO) package of essential noncommunicable disease interventions for primary health care in low-resource settings was adopted in seven villages throughout Samoa in 2015. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: The National Steering Committee Members designed and implemented a screening process, and local facilitators and health-care workers collected health and lifestyle data. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: The WHO/International Society of Hypertension risk assessment was used on villagers older than 40 years to identify people at high risk of noncommunicable disease. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Local setting Samoa is a small island developing state with increasing morbidity and mortality due to noncommunicable diseases. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: A national representative survey indicated that 50.1% (595/1188) of the Samoan adult population is at high risk of such diseases. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: High numbers of noncommunicable diseases are undiagnosed or untreated, because of shortage of health-care staff and lack of awareness of risk factors. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Relevant changes The teams collected data from 2234 adults. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: For people older than 40 years, 6.7% (54/804) were identified as being at high-risk and were encouraged to seek treatment or manage risk factors. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Community members developed an awareness programme to improve understanding of lifestyle risk factors. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Lessons learnt Engaging community members was crucial in conducting a successful screening campaign. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: By identifying those villagers at high risk of developing noncommunicable diseases, early intervention was possible. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Education improved awareness of the symptom-free nature of early-stage noncommunicable diseases. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: IMPORTANCE Understanding the major health problems in the United States and how they are changing over time is critical for informing national health policy. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: OBJECTIVES To measure the burden of diseases, injuries, and leading risk factors in the United States from 1990 to 2010 and to compare these measurements with those of the 34 countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: DESIGN We used the systematic analysis of descriptive epidemiology of 291 diseases and injuries, 1160 sequelae of these diseases and injuries, and 67 risk factors or clusters of risk factors from 1990 to 2010 for 187 countries developed for the Global Burden of Disease 2010 Study to describe the health status of the United States and to compare US health outcomes with those of 34 OECD countries. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Years of life lost due to premature mortality (YLLs) were computed by multiplying the number of deaths at each age by a reference life expectancy at that age. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Years lived with disability (YLDs) were calculated by multiplying prevalence (based on systematic reviews) by the disability weight (based on population-based surveys) for each sequela; disability in this study refers to any short- or long-term loss of health. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) were estimated as the sum of YLDs and YLLs. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Deaths and DALYs related to risk factors were based on systematic reviews and meta-analyses of exposure data and relative risks for risk-outcome pairs. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Healthy life expectancy (HALE) was used to summarize overall population health, accounting for both length of life and levels of ill health experienced at different ages. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: RESULTS US life expectancy for both sexes combined increased from 75.2 years in 1990 to 78.2 years in 2010; during the same period, HALE increased from 65.8 years to 68.1 years. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: The diseases and injuries with the largest number of YLLs in 2010 were ischemic heart disease, lung cancer, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and road injury. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Age-standardized YLL rates increased for Alzheimer disease, drug use disorders, chronic kidney disease, kidney cancer, and falls. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: The diseases with the largest number of YLDs in 2010 were low back pain, major depressive disorder, other musculoskeletal disorders, neck pain, and anxiety disorders. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: As the US population has aged, YLDs have comprised a larger share of DALYs than have YLLs. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: The leading risk factors related to DALYs were dietary risks, tobacco smoking, high body mass index, high blood pressure, high fasting plasma glucose, physical inactivity, and alcohol use. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Among 34 OECD countries between 1990 and 2010, the US rank for the age-standardized death rate changed from 18th to 27th, for the age-standardized YLL rate from 23rd to 28th, for the age-standardized YLD rate from 5th to 6th, for life expectancy at birth from 20th to 27th, and for HALE from 14th to 26th. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE From 1990 to 2010, the United States made substantial progress in improving health. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Life expectancy at birth and HALE increased, all-cause death rates at all ages decreased, and age-specific rates of years lived with disability remained stable. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: However, morbidity and chronic disability now account for nearly half of the US health burden, and improvements in population health in the United States have not kept pace with advances in population health in other wealthy nations. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: PURPOSE To perform a systematic review on the epidemiology, the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and economic burden of binge eating disorder (BED). Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: METHODS A systematic literature search of English-language articles was conducted using Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, PsycARTICLES, Academic Search Complete, CINAHL Plus, Business Source Premier and Cochrane Library. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Literature search on epidemiology was limited to studies published between 2009 and 2013. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Cost data were inflated and converted to 2012 US$ purchasing power parities. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: All of the included studies were assessed for quality. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: RESULTS Forty-nine articles were included. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Data on epidemiology were reported in 31, HRQoL burden in 16, and economic burden in 7 studies. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Diagnosis of BED was made using 4th Edition of The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) criteria in 46 studies. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Lifetime prevalence of BED was 1.1-1.9% in the general population (DSM-IV). Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: BED was associated with significant impairment in aspects of HRQoL relating to both physical and mental health; the Short Form 36 Physical and Mental Component Summary mean scores varied between 31.1 to 47.3 and 32.0 to 49.8, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Compared to individuals without eating disorder, BED was related to increased healthcare utilization and costs. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: Annual direct healthcare costs per BED patient ranged between $2,372 and $3,731. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: CONCLUSIONS BED is a serious eating disorder that impairs HRQoL and is related to increased healthcare utilization and healthcare costs. Relevant:
Query: Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. Document: The limited literature warrants further research, especially to better understand the long-term HRQoL and economic burden of BED. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: With the success of ipilimumab and promise of programmed death-1 pathway-targeted agents, the field of tumor immunotherapy is expanding rapidly. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Newer targets for clinical development include select members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) family. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Agonist antibodies to these co-stimulatory molecules target both T and B cells, modulating T-cell activation and enhancing immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: In vitro and in vivo preclinical data have provided the basis for continued development of 4-1BB, OX40, glucocorticoid-induced TNFR-related gene, herpes virus entry mediator, and CD27 as potential therapies for patients with cancer. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: In this review, we summarize the immune response to tumors, consider preclinical and early clinical data on select TNFR family members, discuss potential translational challenges and suggest possible combination therapies with the aim of inducing durable antitumor responses. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Epigenetic silencing of immune-related genes is a striking feature of the cancer genome that occurs in the process of tumorigenesis. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: This phenomena impacts antigen processing and antigen presentation by tumor cells and facilitates evasion of immunosurveillance. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Further modulation of the tumor microenvironment by altered expression of immunosuppressive cytokines impairs antigen-presenting cells and cytolytic T-cell function. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: The potential reversal of immunosuppression by epigenetic modulation is therefore a promising and versatile therapeutic approach to reinstate endogenous immune recognition and tumor lysis. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Pre-clinical studies have identified multiple elements of the immune system that can be modulated by epigenetic mechanisms and result in improved antigen presentation, effector T-cell function, and breakdown of suppressor mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Recent clinical studies are utilizing epigenetic therapies prior to, or in combination with, immune therapies to improve clinical outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Ovarian cancer is the most lethal of all gynecological cancers, and there is an urgent unmet need to develop new therapies. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is characterized by an immune suppressive microenvironment, and response of ovarian cancers to immune therapies has thus far been disappointing. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: We now find, in a mouse model of EOC, that clinically relevant doses of DNA methyltransferase and histone deacetylase inhibitors (DNMTi and HDACi, respectively) reduce the immune suppressive microenvironment through type I IFN signaling and improve response to immune checkpoint therapy. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: These data indicate that the type I IFN response is required for effective in vivo antitumorigenic actions of the DNMTi 5-azacytidine (AZA). Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Through type I IFN signaling, AZA increases the numbers of CD45+ immune cells and the percentage of active CD8+ T and natural killer (NK) cells in the tumor microenvironment, while reducing tumor burden and extending survival. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: AZA also increases viral defense gene expression in both tumor and immune cells, and reduces the percentage of macrophages and myeloid-derived suppressor cells in the tumor microenvironment. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: The addition of an HDACi to AZA enhances the modulation of the immune microenvironment, specifically increasing T and NK cell activation and reducing macrophages over AZA treatment alone, while further increasing the survival of the mice. Relevant:
Query: Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. Document: Finally, a triple combination of DNMTi/HDACi plus the immune checkpoint inhibitor α-PD-1 provides the best antitumor effect and longest overall survival, and may be an attractive candidate for future clinical trials in ovarian cancer. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: OBJECTIVES To determine the incidence and clinical importance of errors in the preparation and administration of intravenous drugs and the stages of the process in which errors occur. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: DESIGN Prospective ethnographic study using disguised observation. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: PARTICIPANTS Nurses who prepared and administered intravenous drugs. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: SETTING 10 wards in a teaching and non-teaching hospital in the United Kingdom. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Number, type, and clinical importance of errors. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: RESULTS 249 errors were identified. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: At least one error occurred in 212 out of 430 intravenous drug doses (49%, 95% confidence interval 45% to 54%). Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Three doses (1%) had potentially severe errors, 126 (29%) potentially moderate errors, and 83 (19%) potentially minor errors. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Most errors occurred when giving bolus doses or making up drugs that required multiple step preparation. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: CONCLUSIONS The rate of intravenous drug errors was high. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Although most errors would cause only short term adverse effects, a few could have been serious. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: A combination of reducing the amount of preparation on the ward, training, and technology to administer slow bolus doses would probably have the greatest effect on error rates. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: OBJECTIVES To assess incidence and preventability of adverse drug events (ADEs) and potential ADEs. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: To analyze preventable events to develop prevention strategies. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: DESIGN Prospective cohort study. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: PARTICIPANTS All 4031 adult admissions to a stratified random sample of 11 medical and surgical units in two tertiary care hospitals over a 6-month period. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Units included two medical and three surgical intensive care units and four medical and two surgical general care units. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Adverse drug events and potential ADEs. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: METHODS Incidents were detected by stimulated self-report by nurses and pharmacists and by daily review of all charts by nurse investigators. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Incidents were subsequently classified by two independent reviewers as to whether they represented ADEs or potential ADEs and as to severity and preventability. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: RESULTS Over 6 months, 247 ADEs and 194 potential ADEs were identified. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Extrapolated event rates were 6.5 ADEs and 5.5 potential ADEs per 100 nonobstetrical admissions, for mean numbers per hospital per year of approximately 1900 ADEs and 1600 potential ADEs. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Of all ADEs, 1% were fatal (none preventable), 12% life-threatening, 30% serious, and 57% significant. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Twenty-eight percent were judged preventable. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Of the life-threatening and serious ADEs, 42% were preventable, compared with 18% of significant ADEs. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Errors resulting in preventable ADEs occurred most often at the stages of ordering (56%) and administration (34%); transcription (6%) and dispensing errors (4%) were less common. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Errors were much more likely to be intercepted if the error occurred earlier in the process: 48% at the ordering stage vs 0% at the administration stage. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: CONCLUSION Adverse drug events were common and often preventable; serious ADEs were more likely to be preventable. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Most resulted from errors at the ordering stage, but many also occurred at the administration stage. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Prevention strategies should target both stages of the drug delivery process. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: The validity and reliability of observational methods for studying medication administration errors (MAEs) were studied. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Between January and June 1998, two pharmacists observed consecutive drug administration rounds by nurses on two wards in a U.K. hospital and recorded all MAEs identified. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: The observers intervened in cases of potentially harmful errors. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: MAE records were audited to determine the percentage of omitted doses for which a corresponding reason was documented for the observation periods and for nonobservation periods. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Error rates for each drug administration round were analyzed according to whether they were for the nurse's first, second, third (and so on) observed round. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Error rates were calculated before and after the first intervention with nurses for whom an intervention was made. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Observer reliability was calculated by comparing the rates of errors identified by the two observers. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: There was no difference between the observation and nonobservation periods in the percentage of omitted doses for which a reason was documented, and there was no change in the error rate with repeated observations. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: There was no difference in error rates before and after the first intervention for each nurse. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: There was also no difference in error detection between the two observers and no change with increasing duration of observation. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Observation of nurses during drug administration at a U.K. hospital did not significantly affect the MAE rate; nor did tactful interventions by the observers. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Observer reliability was high. Relevant:
Query: Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. Document: Concerns about the validity and reliability of observational methods for identifying MAEs may be unfounded. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: The physiology of ethanologenic Escherichia coli grown anaerobically in alkali-pretreated plant hydrolysates is complex and not well studied. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: To gain insight into how E. coli responds to such hydrolysates, we studied an E. coli K-12 ethanologen fermenting a hydrolysate prepared from corn stover pretreated by ammonia fiber expansion. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Despite the high sugar content (∼6% glucose, 3% xylose) and relatively low toxicity of this hydrolysate, E. coli ceased growth long before glucose was depleted. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Nevertheless, the cells remained metabolically active and continued conversion of glucose to ethanol until all glucose was consumed. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Gene expression profiling revealed complex and changing patterns of metabolic physiology and cellular stress responses during an exponential growth phase, a transition phase, and the glycolytically active stationary phase. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: During the exponential and transition phases, high cell maintenance and stress response costs were mitigated, in part, by free amino acids available in the hydrolysate. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: However, after the majority of amino acids were depleted, the cells entered stationary phase, and ATP derived from glucose fermentation was consumed entirely by the demands of cell maintenance in the hydrolysate. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Comparative gene expression profiling and metabolic modeling of the ethanologen suggested that the high energetic cost of mitigating osmotic, lignotoxin, and ethanol stress collectively limits growth, sugar utilization rates, and ethanol yields in alkali-pretreated lignocellulosic hydrolysates. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Alcohol dependence is a disease that impacts millions of individuals worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: There has been some progress with pharmacotherapy for alcohol-dependent individuals; however, there remains a critical need for the development of novel and additional therapeutic approaches. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Alcohol and nicotine are commonly abused together, and there is evidence that neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) play a role in both alcohol and nicotine dependence. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Varenicline, a partial agonist at the alpha4beta2 nAChRs, reduces nicotine intake and was recently approved as a smoking cessation aid. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: We have investigated the role of varenicline in the modulation of ethanol consumption and seeking using three different animal models of drinking. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: We show that acute administration of varenicline, in doses reported to reduce nicotine reward, selectively reduced ethanol but not sucrose seeking using an operant self-administration drinking paradigm and also decreased voluntary ethanol but not water consumption in animals chronically exposed to ethanol for 2 months before varenicline treatment. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Furthermore, chronic varenicline administration decreased ethanol consumption, which did not result in a rebound increase in ethanol intake when the varenicline was no longer administered. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: The data suggest that the alpha4beta2 nAChRs may play a role in ethanol-seeking behaviors in animals chronically exposed to ethanol. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: The selectivity of varenicline in decreasing ethanol consumption combined with its reported safety profile and mild side effects in humans suggest that varenicline may prove to be a treatment for alcohol dependence. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Understanding the genetic basis of adaptation is a central problem in biology. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: However, revealing the underlying molecular mechanisms has been challenging as changes in fitness may result from perturbations to many pathways, any of which may contribute relatively little. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: We have developed a combined experimental/computational framework to address this problem and used it to understand the genetic basis of ethanol tolerance in Escherichia coli. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: We used fitness profiling to measure the consequences of single-locus perturbations in the context of ethanol exposure. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: A module-level computational analysis was then used to reveal the organization of the contributing loci into cellular processes and regulatory pathways (e.g. osmoregulation and cell-wall biogenesis) whose modifications significantly affect ethanol tolerance. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Strikingly, we discovered that a dominant component of adaptation involves metabolic rewiring that boosts intracellular ethanol degradation and assimilation. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Through phenotypic and metabolomic analysis of laboratory-evolved ethanol-tolerant strains, we investigated naturally accessible pathways of ethanol tolerance. Relevant:
Query: Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. Document: Remarkably, these laboratory-evolved strains, by and large, follow the same adaptive paths as inferred from our coarse-grained search of the fitness landscape. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether higher past exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with prevalent high symptoms of anxiety. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: DESIGN Observational cohort study. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: SETTING Nurses' Health Study. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: PARTICIPANTS 71,271 women enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study residing throughout the contiguous United States who had valid estimates on exposure to particulate matter for at least one exposure period of interest and data on anxiety symptoms. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Meaningfully high symptoms of anxiety, defined as a score of 6 points or greater on the phobic anxiety subscale of the Crown-Crisp index, administered in 2004. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: RESULTS The 71,271 eligible women were aged between 57 and 85 years (mean 70 years) at the time of assessment of anxiety symptoms, with a prevalence of high anxiety symptoms of 15%. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Exposure to particulate matter was characterized using estimated average exposure to particulate matter <2.5 μm in diameter (PM2.5) and 2.5 to 10 μm in diameter (PM2.5-10) in the one month, three months, six months, one year, and 15 years prior to assessment of anxiety symptoms, and residential distance to the nearest major road two years prior to assessment. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Significantly increased odds of high anxiety symptoms were observed with higher exposure to PM2.5 for multiple averaging periods (for example, odds ratio per 10 µg/m(3) increase in prior one month average PM2.5: 1.12, 95% confidence interval 1.06 to 1.19; in prior 12 month average PM2.5: 1.15, 1.06 to 1.26). Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Models including multiple exposure windows suggested short term averaging periods were more relevant than long term averaging periods. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: There was no association between anxiety and exposure to PM2.5-10. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Residential proximity to major roads was not related to anxiety symptoms in a dose dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: CONCLUSIONS Exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) was associated with high symptoms of anxiety, with more recent exposures potentially more relevant than more distant exposures. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Research evaluating whether reductions in exposure to ambient PM2.5 would reduce the population level burden of clinically relevant symptoms of anxiety is warranted. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: RATIONALE Exposure to particulate air pollution has been related to increased hospitalization and death, particularly from cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Lower blood DNA methylation content is found in processes related to cardiovascular outcomes, such as oxidative stress, aging, and atherosclerosis. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: OBJECTIVES We evaluated whether particulate pollution modifies DNA methylation in heavily methylated sequences with high representation throughout the human genome. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: METHODS We measured DNA methylation of long interspersed nucleotide element (LINE)-1 and Alu repetitive elements by quantitative polymerase chain reaction-pyrosequencing of 1,097 blood samples from 718 elderly participants in the Boston area Normative Aging Study. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: We used covariate-adjusted mixed models to account for within-subject correlation in repeated measures. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: We estimated the effects on DNA methylation of ambient particulate pollutants (black carbon, particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter < or = 2.5 microm [PM2.5], or sulfate) in multiple time windows (4 h to 7 d) before the examination. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: We estimated standardized regression coefficients (beta) expressing the fraction of a standard deviation change in DNA methylation associated with a standard deviation increase in exposure. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Repetitive element DNA methylation varied in association with time-related variables, such as day of the week and season. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: LINE-1 methylation decreased after recent exposure to higher black carbon (beta = -0.11; 95% confidence interval [CI], -0.18 to -0.04; P = 0.002) and PM2.5 (beta = -0.13; 95% CI, -0.19 to -0.06; P < 0.001 for the 7-d moving average). Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: In two-pollutant models, only black carbon, a tracer of traffic particles, was significantly associated with LINE-1 methylation (beta = -0.09; 95% CI, -0.17 to -0.01; P = 0.03). Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: No association was found with Alu methylation (P > 0.12). Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: CONCLUSIONS We found decreased repeated-element methylation after exposure to traffic particles. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Whether decreased methylation mediates exposure-related health effects remains to be determined. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Air pollution is a heterogeneous, complex mixture of gases, liquids, and particulate matter. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Epidemiological studies have demonstrated a consistent increased risk for cardiovascular events in relation to both short- and long-term exposure to present-day concentrations of ambient particulate matter. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Several plausible mechanistic pathways have been described, including enhanced coagulation/thrombosis, a propensity for arrhythmias, acute arterial vasoconstriction, systemic inflammatory responses, and the chronic promotion of atherosclerosis. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: The purpose of this statement is to provide healthcare professionals and regulatory agencies with a comprehensive review of the literature on air pollution and cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: In addition, the implications of these findings in relation to public health and regulatory policies are addressed. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: Practical recommendations for healthcare providers and their patients are outlined. Relevant:
Query: Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. Document: In the final section, suggestions for future research are made to address a number of remaining scientific questions. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Febrile (fever-induced) seizures affect 3–5% of infants and young children. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Despite the high incidence of febrile seizures, their contribution to the development of epilepsy later in life has remained controversial. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Combining a new rat model of complex febrile seizures and patch clamp techniques, we determined that hyperthermia-induced seizures in the immature rat cause a selective presynaptic increase in inhibitory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus that lasts into adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: The long-lasting nature of these potent alterations in synaptic communication after febrile seizures does not support the prevalent view of the 'benign' nature of early-life febrile convulsions. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Understanding molecular mechanisms mediating epileptogenesis is critical for developing more effective therapies for epilepsy. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: We recently found that the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway is involved in epileptogenesis, and mTOR inhibitors prevent epilepsy in a mouse model of tuberous sclerosis complex. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Here, we investigated the potential role of mTOR in a rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy initiated by status epilepticus. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Acute kainate-induced seizures resulted in biphasic activation of the mTOR pathway, as evident by an increase in phospho-S6 (P-S6) expression. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: An initial rise in P-S6 expression started approximately 1 h after seizure onset, peaked at 3-6 h, and returned to baseline by 24 h in both hippocampus and neocortex, reflecting widespread stimulation of mTOR signaling by acute seizure activity. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: After resolution of status epilepticus, a second increase in P-S6 was observed in hippocampus only, which started at 3 d, peaked 5-10 d, and persisted for several weeks after kainate injection, correlating with the development of chronic epileptogenesis within hippocampus. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: The mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, administered before kainate, blocked both the acute and chronic phases of seizure-induced mTOR activation and decreased kainate-induced neuronal cell death, neurogenesis, mossy fiber sprouting, and the development of spontaneous epilepsy. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Late rapamycin treatment, after termination of status epilepticus, blocked the chronic phase of mTOR activation and reduced mossy fiber sprouting and epilepsy but not neurogenesis or neuronal death. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: These findings indicate that mTOR signaling mediates mechanisms of epileptogenesis in the kainate rat model and that mTOR inhibitors have potential antiepileptogenic effects in this model. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Brain glial cells, five times more prevalent than neurons, have recently received attention for their potential involvement in epileptic seizures. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Microglia and astrocytes, associated with inflammatory innate immune responses, are responsible for surveillance of brain damage that frequently results in seizures. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Thus, an intriguing suggestion has been put forward that seizures may be facilitated and perhaps triggered by brain immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Indeed, recent evidence strongly implicates innate immune responses in lowering seizure threshold in experimental models of epilepsy, yet, there is no proof that they can play an independent role in initiating seizures in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Here, we show that cortical innate immune responses alone produce profound increases of brain excitability resulting in focal seizures. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: We found that cortical application of lipopolysaccharide, binding to toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), triples evoked field potential amplitudes and produces focal epileptiform discharges. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: These effects are prevented by pre-application of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Our results demonstrate how the innate immune response may participate in acute seizures, increasing neuronal excitability through interleukin-1 release in response to TLR4 detection of the danger signals associated with infections of the central nervous system and with brain injury. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: These results suggest an important role of innate immunity in epileptogenesis and focus on glial inhibition, through pharmacological blockade of TLR4 and the pro-inflammatory mediators released by activated glia, in the study and treatment of seizure disorders in humans. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Febrile (fever-induced) seizures affect 3–5% of infants and young children. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Despite the high incidence of febrile seizures, their contribution to the development of epilepsy later in life has remained controversial. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Combining a new rat model of complex febrile seizures and patch clamp techniques, we determined that hyperthermia-induced seizures in the immature rat cause a selective presynaptic increase in inhibitory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus that lasts into adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: The long-lasting nature of these potent alterations in synaptic communication after febrile seizures does not support the prevalent view of the 'benign' nature of early-life febrile convulsions. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Understanding molecular mechanisms mediating epileptogenesis is critical for developing more effective therapies for epilepsy. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: We recently found that the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway is involved in epileptogenesis, and mTOR inhibitors prevent epilepsy in a mouse model of tuberous sclerosis complex. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Here, we investigated the potential role of mTOR in a rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy initiated by status epilepticus. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Acute kainate-induced seizures resulted in biphasic activation of the mTOR pathway, as evident by an increase in phospho-S6 (P-S6) expression. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: An initial rise in P-S6 expression started approximately 1 h after seizure onset, peaked at 3-6 h, and returned to baseline by 24 h in both hippocampus and neocortex, reflecting widespread stimulation of mTOR signaling by acute seizure activity. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: After resolution of status epilepticus, a second increase in P-S6 was observed in hippocampus only, which started at 3 d, peaked 5-10 d, and persisted for several weeks after kainate injection, correlating with the development of chronic epileptogenesis within hippocampus. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: The mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, administered before kainate, blocked both the acute and chronic phases of seizure-induced mTOR activation and decreased kainate-induced neuronal cell death, neurogenesis, mossy fiber sprouting, and the development of spontaneous epilepsy. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Late rapamycin treatment, after termination of status epilepticus, blocked the chronic phase of mTOR activation and reduced mossy fiber sprouting and epilepsy but not neurogenesis or neuronal death. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: These findings indicate that mTOR signaling mediates mechanisms of epileptogenesis in the kainate rat model and that mTOR inhibitors have potential antiepileptogenic effects in this model. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Seizures in focal epilepsies are sustained by a highly synchronous neuronal discharge that arises at restricted brain sites and subsequently spreads to large portions of the brain. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Despite intense experimental research in this field, the earlier cellular events that initiate and sustain a focal seizure are still not well defined. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Their identification is central to understand the pathophysiology of focal epilepsies and to develop new pharmacological therapies for drug-resistant forms of epilepsy. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: The prominent involvement of astrocytes in ictogenesis was recently proposed. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: We test here whether a cooperation between astrocytes and neurons is a prerequisite to support ictal (seizure-like) and interictal epileptiform events. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Simultaneous patch-clamp recording and Ca2+ imaging techniques were performed in a new in vitro model of focal seizures induced by local applications of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) in rat entorhinal cortex slices. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: We found that a Ca2+ elevation in astrocytes correlates with both the initial development and the maintenance of a focal, seizure-like discharge. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: A delayed astrocyte activation during ictal discharges was also observed in other models (including the whole in vitro isolated guinea pig brain) in which the site of generation of seizure activity cannot be precisely monitored. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: In contrast, interictal discharges were not associated with Ca2+ changes in astrocytes. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Selective inhibition or stimulation of astrocyte Ca2+ signalling blocked or enhanced, respectively, ictal discharges, but did not affect interictal discharge generation. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: Our data reveal that neurons engage astrocytes in a recurrent excitatory loop (possibly involving gliotransmission) that promotes seizure ignition and sustains the ictal discharge. Relevant:
Query: Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. Document: This neuron-astrocyte interaction may represent a novel target to develop effective therapeutic strategies to control seizures. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphisms (E2, C/T Arg158Cys; E4, T/C Cys112Arg; and promoter, g-219t) and the history of concussion in college athletes. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: We hypothesized that carrying 1 or more APOE rare (or minor) allele assessed in this study would be associated with having a history of 1 or more concussions. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: DESIGN Multicenter cross-sectional study. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: SETTING University athletic facilities. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: PARTICIPANTS One hundred ninety-six male football (n = 163) and female soccer (n = 33) college athletes volunteered. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: INTERVENTIONS Written concussion history questionnaire and saliva samples for genotyping. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Self-reported history of a documented concussion and rare APOE genotype (E2, E4, promoter). Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: RESULTS There was a significant association (Wald χ² = 3.82; P = 0.05; odds ratio = 9.8) between carrying all APOE rare alleles and the history of a previous concussion. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: There was also a significant association (Wald χ² = 3.96, P = 0.04, odds ratio = 8.4) between carrying the APOE promoter minor allele and experiencing 2 or more concussions. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: CONCLUSIONS Carriers of all 3 APOE rare (or minor) alleles assessed in this study were nearly 10 times more likely to report a previous concussion and may be at a greater risk of concussion versus noncarriers. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Promoter minor allele carriers were 8.4 times more likely to report multiple concussions and may be at a greater risk of multiple concussions versus noncarriers. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Research involving larger samples of individuals with multiple concussions and carriers of multiple APOE rare alleles is warranted. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Efforts to develop drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown promise in animal studies, only to fail in human trials, suggesting a pressing need to study AD in human model systems. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), a variant of the APOE gene product and the major genetic risk factor for AD, we demonstrated that ApoE4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation, unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides, and that they displayed GABAergic neuron degeneration. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: ApoE4 increased Aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Converting ApoE4 to ApoE3 by gene editing rescued these phenotypes, indicating the specific effects of ApoE4. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Neurons that lacked APOE behaved similarly to those expressing ApoE3, and the introduction of ApoE4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from ApoE4. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Treatment of ApoE4-expressing neurons with a small-molecule structure corrector ameliorated the detrimental effects, thus showing that correcting the pathogenic conformation of ApoE4 is a viable therapeutic approach for ApoE4-related AD. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: In humans, apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a polymorphic multifunctional protein.1 It is coded by three alleles (e2, e3, e4) of a modulator gene (level, variability, and susceptibility gene) at the apoE locus on chromosome 19, determining six apoE genotypes and plasma phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Its pleiotropic effects are exerted on plasma lipoprotein metabolism, coagulation, oxidative processes, macrophage, glial cell and neuronal cell homeostasis, adrenal function, central nervous system physiology, inflammation, and cell proliferation.2,3 ApoE polymorphism modulates susceptibility to many diseases. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: It is, however, particularly notorious for its role in neurodegenerative disorders4 and atherosclerotic arterial disease.5,6 The e4 allele (phenotypes E4/4 and E4/3) that is associated with higher low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is considered proatherogenic, whereas the presence of the e2 allele (E3/2, E2/2), being associated with lower LDL-C levels, is deemed to have the opposite effect (although it may be associated with increased plasma triglycerides and lipoprotein remnants). Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: This simple equation, however, is an oversimplification because these properties are subject to many environmental and genetic influences. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: ApoE has allele- and gender-dependent effects on reverse cholesterol transport, platelet aggregation, and oxidative processes that are likely to affect the overall atherogenic potential ascribed to modulation of lipoprotein metabolism.2,3,6 Notwithstanding the context dependency, a recent meta-analysis fully supports the presence of the e4 allele as a significant risk factor for coronary artery disease.7 Several mechanisms have been evoked to link apoE with atherosclerosis, but the relationship is not fully unraveled in humans. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: Nevertheless, some apoE mimetic peptides that promote LDL clearance are currently tested in animals for potential clinical applications.8,9  See page 436   The situation is relatively simpler in animals. Relevant:
Query: Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. Document: The mouse model has been prominently useful to test mechanisms … Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: An essential step in macromolecular refinement is the selection of model parameters which give as good a description of the experimental data as possible while retaining a realistic data-to-parameter ratio. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: This is particularly true of the choice of atomic displacement parameters, where the move from individual isotropic to individual anisotropic refinement involves a sixfold increase in the number of required displacement parameters. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: The number of refinement parameters can be reduced by using collective variables rather than independent atomic variables and one of the simplest examples of this is the TLS parameterization for describing the translation, libration and screw-rotation displacements of a pseudo-rigid body. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: This article describes the implementation of the TLS parameterization in the macromolecular refinement program REFMAC. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Derivatives of the residual with respect to the TLS parameters are expanded in terms of the derivatives with respect to individual anisotropic U values, which in turn are calculated using a fast Fourier transform technique. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: TLS refinement is therefore fast and can be used routinely. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Examples of TLS refinement are given for glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and a transcription activator GerE, for both of which there is data to only 2.0 A, so that individual anisotropic refinement is not feasible. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: GAPDH has been refined with between one and four TLS groups in the asymmetric unit and GerE with six TLS groups. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: In both cases, inclusion of TLS parameters gives improved refinement statistics and in particular an improvement in R and free R values of several percent. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Furthermore, GAPDH and GerE have two and six molecules in the asymmetric unit, respectively, and in each case the displacement parameters differ significantly between molecules. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: These differences are well accounted for by the TLS parameterization, leaving residual local displacements which are very similar between molecules and to which NCS restraints can be applied. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Stiffness is a biophysical property of the extracellular matrix that modulates cellular functions, including proliferation, invasion, and differentiation, and it also may affect therapeutic responses. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Therapeutic durability in cancer treatments remains a problem for both chemotherapies and pathway-targeted drugs, but the reasons for this are not well understood. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Tumor progression is accompanied by changes in the biophysical properties of the tissue, and we asked whether matrix rigidity modulated the sensitive versus resistant states in HER2-amplified breast cancer cell responses to the HER2-targeted kinase inhibitor lapatinib. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: The antiproliferative effect of lapatinib was inversely proportional to the elastic modulus of the adhesive substrata. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Down-regulation of the mechanosensitive transcription coactivators YAP and TAZ, either by siRNA or with the small-molecule YAP/TEAD inhibitor verteporfin, eliminated modulus-dependent lapatinib resistance. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Reduction of YAP in vivo in mice also slowed the growth of implanted HER2-amplified tumors, showing a trend of increasing sensitivity to lapatinib as YAP decreased. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Thus we address the role of stiffness in resistance to and efficacy of a HER2 pathway-targeted therapeutic via the mechanotransduction arm of the Hippo pathway. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: Very often, the positions of flexible domains within macromolecules as well as within macromolecular complexes cannot be determined by standard structural biology methods. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: To overcome this problem, we developed a method that uses probabilistic data analysis to combine single-molecule measurements with X-ray crystallography data. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: The method determines not only the most likely position of a fluorescent dye molecule attached to the domain but also the complete three-dimensional probability distribution depicting the experimental uncertainty. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: With this approach, single-pair fluorescence resonance energy transfer measurements can now be used as a quantitative tool for investigating the position and dynamics of flexible domains within macromolecular complexes. Relevant:
Query: Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. Document: We applied this method to find the position of the 5′ end of the nascent RNA exiting transcription elongation complexes of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) RNA polymerase II and studied the influence of transcription factor IIB on the position of the RNA. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1), which is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane of mammalian brown adipose tissue (BAT), generates heat by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Upon cold exposure or nutritional abundance, sympathetic neurons stimulate BAT to express Ucp1 to induce energy dissipation and thermogenesis. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Accordingly, increased Ucp1 expression reduces obesity in mice and is correlated with leanness in humans. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Despite this significance, there is currently a limited understanding of how Ucp1 expression is physiologically regulated at the molecular level. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Here, we describe the involvement of Sestrin2 and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in regulation of Ucp1 expression. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Transgenic overexpression of Sestrin2 in adipose tissues inhibited both basal and cold-induced Ucp1 expression in interscapular BAT, culminating in decreased thermogenesis and increased fat accumulation. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Endogenous Sestrin2 is also important for suppressing Ucp1 expression because BAT from Sestrin2(-/-) mice exhibited a highly elevated level of Ucp1 expression. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: The redox-inactive mutant of Sestrin2 was incapable of regulating Ucp1 expression, suggesting that Sestrin2 inhibits Ucp1 expression primarily through reducing ROS accumulation. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Consistently, ROS-suppressing antioxidant chemicals, such as butylated hydroxyanisole and N-acetylcysteine, inhibited cold- or cAMP-induced Ucp1 expression as well. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: p38 MAPK, a signaling mediator required for cAMP-induced Ucp1 expression, was inhibited by either Sestrin2 overexpression or antioxidant treatments. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Taken together, these results suggest that Sestrin2 and antioxidants inhibit Ucp1 expression through suppressing ROS-mediated p38 MAPK activation, implying a critical role of ROS in proper BAT metabolism. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Neurons and cancer cells use glucose extensively, yet the precise advantage of this adaptation remains unclear. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: These two seemingly disparate cell types also show an increased regulation of the apoptotic pathway, which allows for their long-term survival. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Here we show that both neurons and cancer cells strictly inhibit cytochrome c-mediated apoptosis by a mechanism dependent on glucose metabolism. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: We report that the pro-apoptotic activity of cytochrome c is influenced by its redox state and that increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS) following an apoptotic insult lead to the oxidation and activation of cytochrome c. In healthy neurons and cancer cells, however, cytochrome c is reduced and held inactive by intracellular glutathione (GSH), generated as a result of glucose metabolism by the pentose phosphate pathway. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: These results uncover a striking similarity in apoptosis regulation between neurons and cancer cells and provide insight into an adaptive advantage offered by the Warburg effect for cancer cell evasion of apoptosis and for long-term neuronal survival. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Autophagy plays a central role in regulating important cellular functions such as cell survival during starvation and control of infectious pathogens. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Recently, it has been shown that autophagy can induce cells to die; however, the mechanism of the autophagic cell death program is unclear. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: We now show that caspase inhibition leading to cell death by means of autophagy involves reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, membrane lipid oxidation, and loss of plasma membrane integrity. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Inhibition of autophagy by chemical compounds or knocking down the expression of key autophagy proteins such as ATG7, ATG8, and receptor interacting protein (RIP) blocks ROS accumulation and cell death. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: The cause of abnormal ROS accumulation is the selective autophagic degradation of the major enzymatic ROS scavenger, catalase. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: Caspase inhibition directly induces catalase degradation and ROS accumulation, which can be blocked by autophagy inhibitors. Relevant:
Query: FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Document: These findings unveil a molecular mechanism for the role of autophagy in cell death and provide insight into the complex relationship between ROS and nonapoptotic programmed cell death. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Histone levels are tightly regulated to prevent harmful effects such as genomic instability and hypersensitivity to DNA-damaging agents due to the accumulation of these highly basic proteins when DNA replication slows down or stops. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Although chromosomal histones are stable, excess (non-chromatin bound) histones are rapidly degraded in a Rad53 (radiation sensitive 53) kinase-dependent manner in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Here we demonstrate that excess histones associate with Rad53 in vivo and seem to undergo modifications such as tyrosine phosphorylation and polyubiquitylation, before their proteolysis by the proteasome. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: We have identified the Tyr 99 residue of histone H3 as being critical for the efficient ubiquitylation and degradation of this histone. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: We have also identified the ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) Ubc4 and Ubc5, as well as the ubiquitin ligase (E3) Tom1 (temperature dependent organization in mitotic nucleus 1), as enzymes involved in the ubiquitylation of excess histones. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Regulated histone proteolysis has major implications for the maintenance of epigenetic marks on chromatin, genomic stability and the packaging of sperm DNA. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: INO80 is an evolutionarily conserved, ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling enzyme that plays roles in transcription, DNA repair, and replication. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Here, we show that yeast INO80 facilitates these diverse processes at least in part by controlling genome-wide distribution of the histone variant H2A.Z. In the absence of INO80, H2A.Z nucleosomes are mislocalized, and H2A.Z levels at promoters show reduced responsiveness to transcriptional changes, suggesting that INO80 controls H2A.Z dynamics. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Additionally, we demonstrate that INO80 has a histone-exchange activity in which the enzyme can replace nucleosomal H2A.Z/H2B with free H2A/H2B dimers. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Genetic interactions between ino80 and htz1 support a model in which INO80 catalyzes the removal of unacetylated H2A.Z from chromatin as a mechanism to promote genome stability. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Major eukaryotic genomic elements, including the ribosomal DNA (rDNA), are composed of repeated sequences with well-defined copy numbers that must be maintained by regulated recombination. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Although mechanisms that instigate rDNA recombination have been identified, none are directional and they therefore cannot explain precise repeat number control. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Here, we show that yeast lacking histone chaperone Asf1 undergo reproducible rDNA repeat expansions. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: These expansions do not require the replication fork blocking protein Fob1 and are therefore independent of known rDNA expansion mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: We propose the existence of a regulated rDNA repeat gain pathway that becomes constitutively active in asf1Δ mutants. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Cells lacking ASF1 accumulate rDNA repeats with high fidelity in a processive manner across multiple cell divisions. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: The mechanism of repeat gain is dependent on highly repetitive sequence but, surprisingly, is independent of the homologous recombination proteins Rad52, Rad51 and Rad59. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: The expansion mechanism is compromised by mutations that decrease the processivity of DNA replication, which leads to progressive loss of rDNA repeats. Relevant:
Query: Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. Document: Our data suggest that a novel mode of break-induced replication occurs in repetitive DNA that is dependent on high homology but does not require the canonical homologous recombination machinery. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Mesenchymal niche cells may drive tissue failure and malignant transformation in the hematopoietic system, but the underlying molecular mechanisms and relevance to human disease remain poorly defined. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Here, we show that perturbation of mesenchymal cells in a mouse model of the pre-leukemic disorder Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (SDS) induces mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and activation of DNA damage responses in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Massive parallel RNA sequencing of highly purified mesenchymal cells in the SDS mouse model and a range of human pre-leukemic syndromes identified p53-S100A8/9-TLR inflammatory signaling as a common driving mechanism of genotoxic stress. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Transcriptional activation of this signaling axis in the mesenchymal niche predicted leukemic evolution and progression-free survival in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), the principal leukemia predisposition syndrome. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Collectively, our findings identify mesenchymal niche-induced genotoxic stress in heterotypic stem and progenitor cells through inflammatory signaling as a targetable determinant of disease outcome in human pre-leukemia. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: High-throughput DNA sequencing significantly contributed to diagnosis and prognostication in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: We determined the biological and prognostic significance of genetic aberrations in MDS. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: In total, 944 patients with various MDS subtypes were screened for known/putative mutations/deletions in 104 genes using targeted deep sequencing and array-based genomic hybridization. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: In total, 845/944 patients (89.5%) harbored at least one mutation (median, 3 per patient; range, 0-12). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Forty-seven genes were significantly mutated with TET2, SF3B1, ASXL1, SRSF2, DNMT3A, and RUNX1 mutated in >10% of cases. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Many mutations were associated with higher risk groups and/or blast elevation. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Survival was investigated in 875 patients. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: By univariate analysis, 25/48 genes (resulting from 47 genes tested significantly plus PRPF8) affected survival (P<0.05). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: The status of 14 genes combined with conventional factors revealed a novel prognostic model ('Model-1') separating patients into four risk groups ('low', 'intermediate', 'high', 'very high risk') with 3-year survival of 95.2, 69.3, 32.8, and 5.3% (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Subsequently, a 'gene-only model' ('Model-2') was constructed based on 14 genes also yielding four significant risk groups (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Both models were reproducible in the validation cohort (n=175 patients; P<0.001 each). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Thus, large-scale genetic and molecular profiling of multiple target genes is invaluable for subclassification and prognostication in MDS patients. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) comprise a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis, with an increased propensity to develop acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: The molecular basis for MDS progression is unknown, but a key element in MDS disease progression is loss of chromosomal material (genomic instability). Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Using our two-step mouse model for myeloid leukemic disease progression involving overexpression of human mutant NRAS and BCL2 genes, we show that there is a stepwise increase in the frequency of DNA damage leading to an increased frequency of error-prone repair of double-strand breaks (DSB) by nonhomologous end-joining. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: There is a concomitant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) in these transgenic mice with disease progression. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Importantly, RAC1, an essential component of the ROS-producing NADPH oxidase, is downstream of RAS, and we show that ROS production in NRAS/BCL2 mice is in part dependent on RAC1 activity. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: DNA damage and error-prone repair can be decreased or reversed in vivo by N-acetyl cysteine antioxidant treatment. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: Our data link gene abnormalities to constitutive DNA damage and increased DSB repair errors in vivo and provide a mechanism for an increase in the error rate of DNA repair with MDS disease progression. Relevant:
Query: Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. Document: These data suggest treatment strategies that target RAS/RAC pathways and ROS production in human MDS/AML. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Planar cell polarity (PCP) refers to the polarization of cells within the plane of a cell sheet. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: A distinctive epithelial PCP in vertebrates is the uniform orientation of stereociliary bundles of the sensory hair cells in the mammalian cochlea. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: In addition to establishing epithelial PCP, planar polarization is also required for convergent extension (CE); a polarized cellular movement that occurs during neural tube closure and cochlear extension. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Studies in Drosophila and vertebrates have revealed a conserved PCP pathway, including Frizzled (Fz) receptors. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Here we use the cochlea as a model system to explore the involvement of known ligands of Fz, Wnt morphogens, in PCP regulation. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: We show that Wnt5a forms a reciprocal expression pattern with a Wnt antagonist, the secreted frizzled-related protein 3 (Sfrp3 or Frzb), along the axis of planar polarization in the cochlear epithelium. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: We further demonstrate that Wnt5a antagonizes Frzb in regulating cochlear extension and stereociliary bundle orientation in vitro, and that Wnt5a(-/-) animals have a shortened and widened cochlea. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Finally, we show that Wnt5a is required for proper subcellular distribution of a PCP protein, Ltap/Vangl2, and that Wnt5a interacts genetically with Ltap/Vangl2 for uniform orientation of stereocilia, cochlear extension, and neural tube closure. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Together, these findings demonstrate that Wnt5a functions in PCP regulation in mice. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Environmental and genetic aberrations lead to neural tube closure defects (NTDs) in 1 out of every 1,000 births. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Mouse and frog models for these birth defects have indicated that Van Gogh-like 2 (Vangl2, also known as Strabismus) and other components of planar cell polarity (PCP) signalling might control neurulation by promoting the convergence of neural progenitors to the midline. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Here we show a novel role for PCP signalling during neurulation in zebrafish. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: We demonstrate that non-canonical Wnt/PCP signalling polarizes neural progenitors along the anteroposterior axis. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: This polarity is transiently lost during cell division in the neural keel but is re-established as daughter cells reintegrate into the neuroepithelium. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Loss of zebrafish Vangl2 (in trilobite mutants) abolishes the polarization of neural keel cells, disrupts re-intercalation of daughter cells into the neuroepithelium, and results in ectopic neural progenitor accumulations and NTDs. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Remarkably, blocking cell division leads to rescue of trilobite neural tube morphogenesis despite persistent defects in convergence and extension. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: These results reveal a function for PCP signalling in coupling cell division and morphogenesis at neurulation and indicate a previously unrecognized mechanism that might underlie NTDs. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: In birds and mammals, cardiac neural crest is essential for heart development and contributes to conotruncal cushion formation and outflow tract septation. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: The zebrafish prototypical heart lacks outflow tract septation, raising the question of whether cardiac neural crest exists in zebrafish. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Here, results from three distinct lineage-labeling approaches identify zebrafish cardiac neural crest cells and indicate that these cells have the ability to generate MF20-positive muscle cells in the myocardium of the major chambers during development. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Fate-mapping demonstrates that cardiac neural crest cells originate both from neural tube regions analogous to those found in birds, as well as from a novel region rostral to the otic vesicle. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: In contrast to other vertebrates, cardiac neural crest invades the myocardium in all segments of the heart, including outflow tract, atrium, atrioventricular junction, and ventricle in zebrafish. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Three distinct groups of premigratory neural crest along the rostrocaudal axis have different propensities to contribute to different segments in the heart and are correspondingly marked by unique combinations of gene expression patterns. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation Document: Zebrafish will serve as a model for understanding interactions between cardiac neural crest and cardiovascular development. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Planar cell polarity (PCP) refers to the polarization of cells within the plane of a cell sheet. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: A distinctive epithelial PCP in vertebrates is the uniform orientation of stereociliary bundles of the sensory hair cells in the mammalian cochlea. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: In addition to establishing epithelial PCP, planar polarization is also required for convergent extension (CE); a polarized cellular movement that occurs during neural tube closure and cochlear extension. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Studies in Drosophila and vertebrates have revealed a conserved PCP pathway, including Frizzled (Fz) receptors. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Here we use the cochlea as a model system to explore the involvement of known ligands of Fz, Wnt morphogens, in PCP regulation. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: We show that Wnt5a forms a reciprocal expression pattern with a Wnt antagonist, the secreted frizzled-related protein 3 (Sfrp3 or Frzb), along the axis of planar polarization in the cochlear epithelium. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: We further demonstrate that Wnt5a antagonizes Frzb in regulating cochlear extension and stereociliary bundle orientation in vitro, and that Wnt5a(-/-) animals have a shortened and widened cochlea. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Finally, we show that Wnt5a is required for proper subcellular distribution of a PCP protein, Ltap/Vangl2, and that Wnt5a interacts genetically with Ltap/Vangl2 for uniform orientation of stereocilia, cochlear extension, and neural tube closure. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Together, these findings demonstrate that Wnt5a functions in PCP regulation in mice. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Environmental and genetic aberrations lead to neural tube closure defects (NTDs) in 1 out of every 1,000 births. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Mouse and frog models for these birth defects have indicated that Van Gogh-like 2 (Vangl2, also known as Strabismus) and other components of planar cell polarity (PCP) signalling might control neurulation by promoting the convergence of neural progenitors to the midline. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Here we show a novel role for PCP signalling during neurulation in zebrafish. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: We demonstrate that non-canonical Wnt/PCP signalling polarizes neural progenitors along the anteroposterior axis. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: This polarity is transiently lost during cell division in the neural keel but is re-established as daughter cells reintegrate into the neuroepithelium. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Loss of zebrafish Vangl2 (in trilobite mutants) abolishes the polarization of neural keel cells, disrupts re-intercalation of daughter cells into the neuroepithelium, and results in ectopic neural progenitor accumulations and NTDs. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Remarkably, blocking cell division leads to rescue of trilobite neural tube morphogenesis despite persistent defects in convergence and extension. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: These results reveal a function for PCP signalling in coupling cell division and morphogenesis at neurulation and indicate a previously unrecognized mechanism that might underlie NTDs. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: In birds and mammals, cardiac neural crest is essential for heart development and contributes to conotruncal cushion formation and outflow tract septation. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: The zebrafish prototypical heart lacks outflow tract septation, raising the question of whether cardiac neural crest exists in zebrafish. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Here, results from three distinct lineage-labeling approaches identify zebrafish cardiac neural crest cells and indicate that these cells have the ability to generate MF20-positive muscle cells in the myocardium of the major chambers during development. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Fate-mapping demonstrates that cardiac neural crest cells originate both from neural tube regions analogous to those found in birds, as well as from a novel region rostral to the otic vesicle. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: In contrast to other vertebrates, cardiac neural crest invades the myocardium in all segments of the heart, including outflow tract, atrium, atrioventricular junction, and ventricle in zebrafish. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Three distinct groups of premigratory neural crest along the rostrocaudal axis have different propensities to contribute to different segments in the heart and are correspondingly marked by unique combinations of gene expression patterns. Relevant:
Query: Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. Document: Zebrafish will serve as a model for understanding interactions between cardiac neural crest and cardiovascular development. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Maintaining hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) quiescence is a critical property for the life-long generation of blood cells. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Approximately 75% of cells in a highly enriched long-term repopulating HSC (LT-HSC) pool (Lin(-)Sca1(+)c-Kit(hi)CD150(+)CD48(-)) are quiescent, with only a small percentage of the LT-HSCs in cycle. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Transcription factor GATA-3 is known to be vital for the development of T cells at multiple stages in the thymus and for Th2 differentiation in the peripheral organs. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Although it is well documented that GATA-3 is expressed in HSCs, a role for GATA-3 in any prethymic progenitor cell has not been established. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: In the present study, we show that Gata3-null mutant mice generate fewer LT-HSCs and that fewer Gata3-null LT-HSCs are in cycle. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Furthermore, Gata3 mutant hematopoietic progenitor cells fail to be recruited into an increased cycling state after 5-fluorouracil-induced myelosuppression. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Therefore, GATA-3 is required for the maintenance of a normal number of LT-HSCs and for their entry into the cell cycle. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: The balance between oxidative and nonoxidative glucose metabolism is essential for a number of pathophysiological processes. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: By deleting enzymes that affect aerobic glycolysis with different potencies, we examine how modulating glucose metabolism specifically affects hematopoietic and leukemic cell populations. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: We find that a deficiency in the M2 pyruvate kinase isoform (PKM2) reduces the levels of metabolic intermediates important for biosynthesis and impairs progenitor function without perturbing hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), whereas lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) deletion significantly inhibits the function of both HSCs and progenitors during hematopoiesis. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: In contrast, leukemia initiation by transforming alleles putatively affecting either HSCs or progenitors is inhibited in the absence of either PKM2 or LDHA, indicating that the cell-state-specific responses to metabolic manipulation in hematopoiesis do not apply to the setting of leukemia. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: This finding suggests that fine-tuning the level of glycolysis may be explored therapeutically for treating leukemia while preserving HSC function. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Heterogeneity within the self-renewal durability of adult hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) challenges our understanding of the molecular framework underlying HSC function. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Gene expression studies have been hampered by the presence of multiple HSC subtypes and contaminating non-HSCs in bulk HSC populations. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: To gain deeper insight into the gene expression program of murine HSCs, we combined single-cell functional assays with flow cytometric index sorting and single-cell gene expression assays. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Through bioinformatic integration of these datasets, we designed an unbiased sorting strategy that separates non-HSCs away from HSCs, and single-cell transplantation experiments using the enriched population were combined with RNA-seq data to identify key molecules that associate with long-term durable self-renewal, producing a single-cell molecular dataset that is linked to functional stem cell activity. Relevant:
Query: GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. Document: Finally, we demonstrated the broader applicability of this approach for linking key molecules with defined cellular functions in another stem cell system. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of African sleeping sickness, is transmitted to its mammalian host by the tsetse. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: In the fly, the parasite's surface is covered with invariant procyclin, while in the mammal it resides extracellularly in its bloodstream form (BF) and is densely covered with highly immunogenic Variant Surface Glycoprotein (VSG). Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: In the BF, the parasite varies this highly immunogenic surface VSG using a repertoire of ~2500 distinct VSG genes. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Recent reports in mammalian systems point to a role for histone acetyl-lysine recognizing bromodomain proteins in the maintenance of stem cell fate, leading us to hypothesize that bromodomain proteins may maintain the BF cell fate in trypanosomes. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Using small-molecule inhibitors and genetic mutants for individual bromodomain proteins, we performed RNA-seq experiments that revealed changes in the transcriptome similar to those seen in cells differentiating from the BF to the insect stage. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: This was recapitulated at the protein level by the appearance of insect-stage proteins on the cell surface. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Furthermore, bromodomain inhibition disrupts two major BF-specific immune evasion mechanisms that trypanosomes harness to evade mammalian host antibody responses. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: First, monoallelic expression of the antigenically varied VSG is disrupted. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Second, rapid internalization of antibodies bound to VSG on the surface of the trypanosome is blocked. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Thus, our studies reveal a role for trypanosome bromodomain proteins in maintaining bloodstream stage identity and immune evasion. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Importantly, bromodomain inhibition leads to a decrease in virulence in a mouse model of infection, establishing these proteins as potential therapeutic drug targets for trypanosomiasis. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Our 1.25Å resolution crystal structure of a trypanosome bromodomain in complex with I-BET151 reveals a novel binding mode of the inhibitor, which serves as a promising starting point for rational drug design. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: The Arabidopsis genome contains a family of v-SNAREs: VTI11, VTI12, and VTI13. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Only VTI11 and VTI12 are expressed at appreciable levels. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Although these two proteins are 60% identical, they complement different transport pathways when expressed in the yeast vti1 mutant. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: VTI11 was identified recently as the mutated gene in the shoot gravitropic mutant zig. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Here, we show that the vti11 zig mutant has defects in vascular patterning and auxin transport. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: An Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant, vti12, had a normal phenotype under nutrient-rich growth conditions. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: However, under nutrient-poor conditions, vti12 showed an accelerated senescence phenotype, suggesting that VTI12 may play a role in the plant autophagy pathway. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: VTI11 and VTI12 also were able to substitute for each other in their respective SNARE complexes, and a double-mutant cross between zig and vti12 was embryo lethal. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: These results suggest that some VTI1 protein was necessary for plant viability and that the two proteins were partially functionally redundant. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: OBJECTIVE To investigate heritability and continuum versus categorical approaches to attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), using a large-scale twin sample. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: METHOD A cohort of 1,938 families with twins and siblings aged 4 to 12 years, recruited from the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council Twin Registry, was assessed for ADHD using a DSM-III-R-based maternal rating scale. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: Probandwise concordance rates and correlations in monozygotic and dizygotic twins and siblings were calculated, and heritability was examined using the De Fries and Fulker regression technique. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: RESULTS There was a narrow (additive) heritability of 0.75 to 0.91 which was robust across familial relationships (twin, sibling, and twin-sibling) and across definitions of ADHD as part of a continuum or as a disorder with various symptom cutoffs. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: There was no evidence for nonadditive genetic variation or for shared family environmental effects. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: CONCLUSIONS These findings suggest that ADHD is best viewed as the extreme of a behavior that varies genetically throughout the entire population rather than as a disorder with discrete determinants. Relevant:
Query: Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. Document: This has implications for the classification of ADHD and for the identification of genes for this behavior, as well as implications for diagnosis and treatment. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Studying the metabolism of immune cells in recent years has emphasized the tight link existing between the metabolic state and the phenotype of these cells. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Macrophages in particular are a good example of this phenomenon. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Whether the macrophage obtains its energy through glycolysis or through oxidative metabolism can give rise to different phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Classically activated or M1 macrophages are key players of the first line of defense against bacterial infections and are known to obtain energy through glycolysis. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Alternatively activated or M2 macrophages on the other hand are involved in tissue repair and wound healing and use oxidative metabolism to fuel their longer-term functions. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Metabolic intermediates, however, are not just a source of energy but can be directly implicated in a particular macrophage phenotype. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: In M1 macrophages, the Krebs cycle intermediate succinate regulates HIF1α, which is responsible for driving the sustained production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL1β. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: In M2 macrophages, the sedoheptulose kinase carbohydrate kinase-like protein is critical for regulating the pentose phosphate pathway. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: The potential to target these events and impact on disease is an exciting prospect. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Macrophages activated by the Gram-negative bacterial product lipopolysaccharide switch their core metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Here we show that inhibition of glycolysis with 2-deoxyglucose suppresses lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1β but not tumour-necrosis factor-α in mouse macrophages. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: A comprehensive metabolic map of lipopolysaccharide-activated macrophages shows upregulation of glycolytic and downregulation of mitochondrial genes, which correlates directly with the expression profiles of altered metabolites. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Lipopolysaccharide strongly increases the levels of the tricarboxylic-acid cycle intermediate succinate. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Glutamine-dependent anerplerosis is the principal source of succinate, although the ‘GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid) shunt’ pathway also has a role. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Lipopolysaccharide-induced succinate stabilizes hypoxia-inducible factor-1α, an effect that is inhibited by 2-deoxyglucose, with interleukin-1β as an important target. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Lipopolysaccharide also increases succinylation of several proteins. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: We therefore identify succinate as a metabolite in innate immune signalling, which enhances interleukin-1β production during inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Aerobic glycolysis, i.e., the Warburg effect, may contribute to the aggressive phenotype of hepatocellular carcinoma. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: However, increasing evidence highlights the limitations of the Warburg effect, such as high mitochondrial respiration and low glycolysis rates in cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: To explain such contradictory phenomena with regard to the Warburg effect, a metabolic interplay between glycolytic and oxidative cells was proposed, i.e., the "reverse Warburg effect". Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Aerobic glycolysis may also occur in the stromal compartment that surrounds the tumor; thus, the stromal cells feed the cancer cells with lactate and this interaction prevents the creation of an acidic condition in the tumor microenvironment. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: This concept provides great heterogeneity in tumors, which makes the disease difficult to cure using a single agent. Relevant:
Query: Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. Document: Understanding metabolic flexibility by lactate shuttles offers new perspectives to develop treatments that target the hypoxic tumor microenvironment and overcome the limitations of glycolytic inhibitors. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: Calcium influx is crucial for T cell activation and differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: The detailed regulation of this process remains unclear. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: We report here that golli protein, an alternatively spliced product of the myelin basic protein gene, plays a critical role in regulating calcium influx in T cells. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: Golli-deficient T cells were hyperproliferative and showed enhanced calcium entry upon T cell receptor stimulation. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: We further found that golli regulates calcium influx in T cells through the inhibition of the store depletion-induced calcium influx. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: Mutation of the myristoylation site on golli disrupted its association with the plasma membrane and reversed its inhibitory action on Ca2+ influx, indicating that membrane association of golli was essential for its inhibitory action. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: These results indicate that golli functions in a unique way to regulate T cell activation through a mechanism involving the modulation of the calcium homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: The gene-of-the-oligodendrocyte lineage (Golli)-MBP transcription unit contains three Golli-specific exons together with eight exons of the "classical" myelin basic protein (MBP) gene, yielding alternatively spliced proteins which share amino acid sequence with MBP. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: Unlike MBP, a late antigen expressed only in the nervous system, Golli gene products are expressed pre- and post-natally at many sites. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: In this study, we determined the sequence of Golli in rat by RT-PCR and 5' RACE and showed that Golli sequences are expressed in primary lymphoid organs as early as e16.5, which could explain the anergic rat T cell response we previously observed in Golli-induced meningitis. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: Antigen stimulation of immune cells triggers Ca2+ entry through Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ (CRAC) channels, promoting the immune response to pathogens by activating the transcription factor NFAT. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: We have previously shown that cells from patients with one form of hereditary severe combined immune deficiency (SCID) syndrome are defective in store-operated Ca2+ entry and CRAC channel function. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: Here we identify the genetic defect in these patients, using a combination of two unbiased genome-wide approaches: a modified linkage analysis with single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays, and a Drosophila RNA interference screen designed to identify regulators of store-operated Ca2+ entry and NFAT nuclear import. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: Both approaches converged on a novel protein that we call Orai1, which contains four putative transmembrane segments. Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: The SCID patients are homozygous for a single missense mutation in ORAI1, and expression of wild-type Orai1 in SCID T cells restores store-operated Ca2+ influx and the CRAC current (ICRAC). Relevant:
Query: Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. Document: We propose that Orai1 is an essential component or regulator of the CRAC channel complex. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Background  Macrosomia is associated with considerable neonatal and maternal morbidity. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Factors that predict macrosomia are poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: The increased rate of macrosomia in the offspring of pregnant women with diabetes and in congenital hyperinsulinaemia is mediated by increased foetal insulin secretion. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: We assessed the in utero and neonatal role of two key regulators of pancreatic insulin secretion by studying birthweight and the incidence of neonatal hypoglycaemia in patients with heterozygous mutations in the maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) genes HNF4A (encoding HNF-4α) and HNF1A/TCF1 (encoding HNF-1α), and the effect of pancreatic deletion of Hnf4a on foetal and neonatal insulin secretion in mice. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: OBJECTIVE White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are areas of increased signal on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans that most commonly reflect small vessel cerebrovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Increased WMH volume is associated with risk and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: These observations are typically interpreted as evidence that vascular abnormalities play an additive, independent role contributing to symptom presentation, but not core features of AD. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: We examined the severity and distribution of WMH in presymptomatic PSEN1, PSEN2, and APP mutation carriers to determine the extent to which WMH manifest in individuals genetically determined to develop AD. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: METHODS The study comprised participants (n = 299; age = 39.03 ± 10.13) from the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network, including 184 (61.5%) with a mutation that results in AD and 115 (38.5%) first-degree relatives who were noncarrier controls. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: We calculated the estimated years from expected symptom onset (EYO) by subtracting the affected parent's symptom onset age from the participant's age. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Baseline MRI data were analyzed for total and regional WMH. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Mixed-effects piece-wise linear regression was used to examine WMH differences between carriers and noncarriers with respect to EYO. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: RESULTS Mutation carriers had greater total WMH volumes, which appeared to increase approximately 6 years before expected symptom onset. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Effects were most prominent for the parietal and occipital lobe, which showed divergent effects as early as 22 years before estimated onset. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: INTERPRETATION Autosomal-dominant AD is associated with increased WMH well before expected symptom onset. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: The findings suggest the possibility that WMHs are a core feature of AD, a potential therapeutic target, and a factor that should be integrated into pathogenic models of the disease. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Ann Neurol 2016;79:929-939. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is hypothesized to be caused by an overproduction or reduced clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Autosomal dominant AD (ADAD) caused by mutations in the presenilin (PSEN) gene have been postulated to result from increased production of Aβ42 compared to Aβ40 in the central nervous system (CNS). Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: This has been demonstrated in rodent models of ADAD but not in human mutation carriers. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: We used compartmental modeling of stable isotope labeling kinetic (SILK) studies in human carriers of PSEN mutations and related noncarriers to evaluate the pathophysiological effects of PSEN1 and PSEN2 mutations on the production and turnover of Aβ isoforms. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: We compared these findings by mutation status and amount of fibrillar amyloid deposition as measured by positron emission tomography (PET) using the amyloid tracer Pittsburgh compound B (PIB). Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: CNS Aβ42 to Aβ40 production rates were 24% higher in mutation carriers compared to noncarriers, and this was independent of fibrillar amyloid deposits quantified by PET PIB imaging. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: The fractional turnover rate of soluble Aβ42 relative to Aβ40 was 65% faster in mutation carriers and correlated with amyloid deposition, consistent with increased deposition of Aβ42 into plaques, leading to reduced recovery of Aβ42 in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: Reversible exchange of Aβ42 peptides with preexisting unlabeled peptide was observed in the presence of plaques. Relevant:
Query: HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years Document: These findings support the hypothesis that Aβ42 is overproduced in the CNS of humans with PSEN mutations that cause AD, and demonstrate that soluble Aβ42 turnover and exchange processes are altered in the presence of amyloid plaques, causing a reduction in Aβ42 concentrations in the CSF. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the association of overall and specific headaches with volume of white matter hyperintensities, brain infarcts, and cognition. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: DESIGN Population based, cross sectional study. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: SETTING Epidemiology of Vascular Ageing study, Nantes, France. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: PARTICIPANTS 780 participants (mean age 69, 58.5% women) with detailed headache assessment. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Brain scans were evaluated for volume of white matter hyperintensities (by fully automated imaging processing) and for classification of infarcts (by visual reading with a standardised assessment grid). Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Cognitive function was assessed by a battery of tests including the mini-mental state examination. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: RESULTS 163 (20.9%) participants reported a history of severe headache and 116 had migraine, of whom 17 (14.7%) reported aura symptoms. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: An association was found between any history of severe headache and increasing volume of white matter hyperintensities. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: The adjusted odds ratio of being in the highest third for total volume of white matter hyperintensities was 2.0 (95% confidence interval 1.3 to 3.1, P for trend 0.002) for participants with any history of severe headache when compared with participants without severe headache being in the lowest third. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: The association pattern was similar for all headache types. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Migraine with aura was the only headache type strongly associated with volume of deep white matter hyperintensities (highest third odds ratio 12.4, 1.6 to 99.4, P for trend 0.005) and with brain infarcts (3.4, 1.2 to 9.3). Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: The location of infarcts was predominantly outside the cerebellum and brain stem. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Evidence was lacking for cognitive impairment for any headache type with or without brain lesions. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this population based study, any history of severe headache was associated with an increased volume of white matter hyperintensities. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Migraine with aura was the only headache type associated with brain infarcts. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Evidence that headache of any type by itself or in combination with brain lesions was associated with cognitive impairment was lacking. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Forty-one recurrent tension headache sufferers were randomly assigned to either cognitive-behavioral therapy (administered in a primarily home-based treatment protocol) or to amitriptyline therapy (with dosage individualized at 25, 50, or 75 mg/day). Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Cognitive-behavioral therapy and amitriptyline each yielded clinically significant improvements in headache activity, both when improvement was assessed with patient daily recordings (56% and 27% reduction in headache index, respectively), and when improvement was assessed with neurologist ratings of clinical improvement (94% and 69% of patients rated at least moderately improved, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: In instances where differences in treatment effectiveness were observed (headache index, somatic complaints, perceptions of control of headache activity), cognitive-behavioral therapy yielded somewhat more positive outcomes than did amitriptyline. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Neither treatment, however, eliminated headache problems. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: CONTEXT Chronic tension-type headaches are characterized by near-daily headaches and often are difficult to manage in primary practice. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Behavioral and pharmacological therapies each appear modestly effective, but data are lacking on their separate and combined effects. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the clinical efficacy of behavioral and pharmacological therapies, singly and combined, for chronic tension-type headaches. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: DESIGN AND SETTING Randomized placebo-controlled trial conducted from August 1995 to January 1998 at 2 outpatient sites in Ohio. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: PARTICIPANTS Two hundred three adults (mean age, 37 years; 76% women) with diagnosis of chronic tension-type headaches (mean, 26 headache d/mo). Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: INTERVENTIONS Participants were randomly assigned to receive tricyclic antidepressant (amitriptyline hydrochloride, up to 100 mg/d, or nortriptyline hydrochloride, up to 75 mg/d) medication (n = 53), placebo (n = 48), stress management (eg, relaxation, cognitive coping) therapy (3 sessions and 2 telephone contacts) plus placebo (n = 49), or stress management therapy plus antidepressant medication (n = 53). Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Monthly headache index scores calculated as the mean of pain ratings (0-10 scale) recorded by participants in a daily diary 4 times per day; number of days per month with at least moderate pain (pain rating >/=5), analgesic medication use, and Headache Disability Inventory scores, compared by intervention group. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: RESULTS Tricyclic antidepressant medication and stress management therapy each produced larger reductions in headache activity, analgesic medication use, and headache-related disability than placebo, but antidepressant medication yielded more rapid improvements in headache activity. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Combined therapy was more likely to produce clinically significant (>/=50%) reductions in headache index scores (64% of participants) than antidepressant medication (38% of participants; P =.006), stress management therapy (35%; P =.003), or placebo (29%; P =.001). Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: On other measures the combined therapy and its 2 component therapies produced similar outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: CONCLUSIONS Our results indicate that antidepressant medication and stress management therapy are each modestly effective in treating chronic tension-type headaches. Relevant:
Query: Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. Document: Combined therapy may improve outcome relative to monotherapy. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Since 2008 the World Health Organization (WHO), through its mental health Gap Action Programme, has attempted to revitalize efforts to integrate mental health into non-specialized (e.g. primary) healthcare. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: While this has led to renewed interest in this potential method of mental health service delivery, it has also prompted criticism. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Some concerns raised are that it would contribute to the medicalization of social and psychological problems, and narrowly focus on primary care without sufficient attention given to strengthening other levels of the healthcare system, notably community-based care and care on district levels. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: This paper discusses seven elements that may be critical to preventing inadvertently contributing to increasing a narrow biomedical approach to mental healthcare when integrating mental health into non-specialized healthcare: (1) using task shifting approaches within a system of stepped care, (2) ensuring primary mental healthcare also includes brief psychotherapeutic interventions, (3) promote community-based recovery-oriented interventions for people with disabling chronic mental disorders, (4) conceptualizing training as a continuous process of strengthening clinical competencies through supervision, (5) engaging communities as partners in psychosocial interventions, (6) embedding shifts to primary mental healthcare within wider health policy reforms, and (7) promoting inter-sectoral approaches to address social determinants of mental health. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Human beings, make errors Healthcare Services is a complex industry prone to accidents. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: The IOM Report [1] points out that some systems are more prone to accidents than others. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: When a system fails there are often multiple faults. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: In healthcare,human errors are the greatest contributors to accidents,however when human error is to blame it often depends upon failures within the system. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: These failures exists in the system before the error occurs, the same as with latent errors which are difficult to identify since they may be hidden in computers or within the various managerial layers. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Most of the errors can be prevented by designing systems that make it hard for people to do the wrong thing and easy for people to do the right thing. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: In healthcare, this means designing processes that are able to ensure that patients are safe from accidental injury. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: As healthcare and the system that delivers it become more complex, the opportunities for errors abound. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: The IOM report “To Err is Human” proposes an approach for reducing medical errors and improving patient safety. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: The environment within which this occurs has a critical influence on quality. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: This influence may contain two dimensions; the first consists of the domain of quality which includes the practice that is consistent with current medical knowledge. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: The second dimension consists of forces in the external environment that can drive quality improvement in the delivery system. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Although the risk of dying as a result of a medical error, far surpasses the risk of dying in an airline accident, public attention has been more focused on improving safety in the airline industry than in healthcare systems. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Because of the absence of standardized nomenclature, it is important to define what an error is and what is an adverse event, the IOM Report defines them in the following way: “An error is the failure of a planned action to be completed as intended or the use of a wrong plan to achieve an aim. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: ” An adverse event is an injury caused by medical management rather than the underlying condition of the patient. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: An adverse event attributable to error is a “preventable adverse event”. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: OBJECTIVE Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is characterised by stromal desmoplasia and vascular dysfunction, which critically impair drug delivery. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: This study examines the role of an abundant extracellular matrix component, the megadalton glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (HA), as a novel therapeutic target in PDA. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: METHODS Using a genetically engineered mouse model of PDA, the authors enzymatically depleted HA by a clinically formulated PEGylated human recombinant PH20 hyaluronidase (PEGPH20) and examined tumour perfusion, vascular permeability and drug delivery. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: The preclinical utility of PEGPH20 in combination with gemcitabine was assessed by short-term and survival studies. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: RESULTS PEGPH20 rapidly and sustainably depleted HA, inducing the re-expansion of PDA blood vessels and increasing the intratumoral delivery of two chemotherapeutic agents, doxorubicin and gemcitabine. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Moreover, PEGPH20 triggered fenestrations and interendothelial junctional gaps in PDA tumour endothelia and promoted a tumour-specific increase in macromolecular permeability. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: Finally, combination therapy with PEGPH20 and gemcitabine led to inhibition of PDA tumour growth and prolonged survival over gemcitabine monotherapy, suggesting immediate clinical utility. Relevant:
Query: Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. Document: CONCLUSIONS The authors demonstrate that HA impedes the intratumoral vasculature in PDA and propose that its enzymatic depletion be explored as a means to improve drug delivery and response in patients with pancreatic cancer. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Tuberculosis and helminthic infections coexist in many parts of the world, yet the impact of helminth-elicited Th2 responses on the ability of the host to control Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection has not been fully explored. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: We show that mice infected with the intestinal helminth Nippostrongylus brasiliensis (Nb) exhibit a transitory impairment of resistance to airborne Mtb infection. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Furthermore, a second dose of Nb infection substantially increases the bacterial burden in the lungs of co-infected mice. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Interestingly, the Th2 response in the co-infected animals did not impair the onset and development of the protective Mtb-specific Th1 cellular immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: However, the helminth-induced Th2 environment resulted in the accumulation of alternatively activated macrophages (AAMs) in the lung. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Co-infected mice lacking interleukin (IL) 4Rα exhibited improved ability to control Mtb infection, which was accompanied by significantly reduced accumulation of AAMs. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Moreover, IL-4Rα(-/-) mice adoptively transferred with wild-type macrophages had a significantly higher Mtb load in their lungs compared with those that received IL-4Rα(-/-) macrophages, suggesting a direct contribution for the IL-4R pathway to the heightened susceptibility of co-infected animals. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: The Th2 response can thus enhance the intracellular persistence of Mtb, in part by mediating the alternative activation of macrophages via the IL-4Rα signaling pathway. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Autophagy is a recently recognized immune effector mechanism against intracellular pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: The role of autophagy in innate immunity has been well established, but the extent of its regulation by the adaptive immune response is less well understood. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: The T helper 1 (Th1) cell cytokine IFN-gamma induces autophagy in macrophages to eliminate Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Here, we report that Th2 cytokines affect autophagy in macrophages and their ability to control intracellular M. tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: IL-4 and IL-13 abrogated autophagy and autophagy-mediated killing of intracellular mycobacteria in murine and human macrophages. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Inhibition of starvation-induced autophagy by IL-4 and IL-13 was dependent on Akt signaling, whereas the inhibition of IFN-gamma-induced autophagy was Akt independent and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) dependent. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: These findings establish a mechanism through which Th1-Th2 polarization differentially affects the immune control of intracellular pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: The ability of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to enter host macrophages, and reside in a phagosome, which does not mature into a phagolysosome, is central to the spread of tuberculosis and the associated pandemic involving billions of people worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Tuberculosis can be viewed as a disease with a significant intracellular trafficking and organellar biogenesis component. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: Current understanding of the block in M. tuberculosis phagosome maturation also sheds light on fundamental aspects of phagolysosome biogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: The maturation block involves interference with the recruitment and function of rabs, rab effectors (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases and tethering molecules such as EEA1), SNAREs (Syntaxin 6 and cellubrevin) and Ca2+/calmodulin signaling. Relevant:
Query: Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. Document: M. tuberculosis analogs of mammalian phosphatidylinositols interfere with these systems and associated processes. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: As global desalination capacity continues its rapid growth, the impetus for reducing the adverse environmental impacts of brine discharge grows concurrently. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Although modern brine outfall designs have significantly limited such impacts, they are costly. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Recovering valuable components and chemical derivatives from brine has potential to resolve both environmental and economic concerns. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: In this article, methods for producing sodium hydroxide (“caustic”) from seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) brine for internal reuse, which typically involve brine purification, brine concentration, and sodium chloride electrolysis, are reviewed. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Because process energy consumption drives process cost and caustic purity determines product usability in drinking water systems, reviewed technologies are benchmarked against thermodynamic minimum energy consumption and maximum (stoichiometric) NaOH production rates. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: After individual reviews of brine purification, concentration, and electrolysis technologies, five existing facilities ... Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in adult marrow are believed to be derived from fetal liver precursors. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: To study cell kinetics involved in long-term hematopoiesis, we studied single-sorted candidate HSCs from fetal liver that were cultured in the presence of a mixture of stimulatory cytokines. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: After 8–10 d, the number of cells in primary cultures varied from 10,000 cells. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Single cells in slow growing colonies were recloned upon reaching a 100–200 cell stage. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Strikingly, the number of cells in subclones varied widely again. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: These results are indicative of asymmetric divisions in primitive hematopoietic cells in which proliferative potential and cell cycle properties are unevenly distributed among daughter cells. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: The continuous generation of functional heterogeneity among the clonal progeny of HSCs is in support of intrinsic control of stem cell fate and provides a model for the long-term maintenance of hematopoiesis in vitro and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: BACKGROUND Chromosomal rearrangements of the gene encoding ROS1 proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase (ROS1) define a distinct molecular subgroup of non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) that may be susceptible to therapeutic ROS1 kinase inhibition. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Crizotinib is a small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), ROS1, and another proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase, MET. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: METHODS We enrolled 50 patients with advanced NSCLC who tested positive for ROS1 rearrangement in an expansion cohort of the phase 1 study of crizotinib. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Patients were treated with crizotinib at the standard oral dose of 250 mg twice daily and assessed for safety, pharmacokinetics, and response to therapy. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: ROS1 fusion partners were identified with the use of next-generation sequencing or reverse-transcriptase-polymerase-chain-reaction assays. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: RESULTS The objective response rate was 72% (95% confidence interval [CI], 58 to 84), with 3 complete responses and 33 partial responses. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: The median duration of response was 17.6 months (95% CI, 14.5 to not reached). Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Median progression-free survival was 19.2 months (95% CI, 14.4 to not reached), with 25 patients (50%) still in follow-up for progression. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: Among 30 tumors that were tested, we identified 7 ROS1 fusion partners: 5 known and 2 novel partner genes. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: No correlation was observed between the type of ROS1 rearrangement and the clinical response to crizotinib. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: The safety profile of crizotinib was similar to that seen in patients with ALK-rearranged NSCLC. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this study, crizotinib showed marked antitumor activity in patients with advanced ROS1-rearranged NSCLC. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: ROS1 rearrangement defines a second molecular subgroup of NSCLC for which crizotinib is highly active. Relevant:
Query: Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. Document: (Funded by Pfizer and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00585195.). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: In uncontrolled studies, noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV) was found useful in avoiding endotracheal intubation in patients with acute respiratory failure (ARF) caused by severe community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: We conducted a prospective, randomized study comparing standard treatment plus NPPV delivered through a face mask to standard treatment alone in patients with severe CAP and ARF. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Patients fitting the American Thoracic Society criteria for severe CAP were included in presence of ARF (refractory hypoxemia and/or hypercapnia with acidosis). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Exclusion criteria were: severe hemodynamic instability, requirement for emergent cardiopulmonary resuscitation, home mechanical ventilation or oxygen long-term supplementation, concomitant severe disease with a low expectation of life, inability to expectorate or contraindications to the use of the mask. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Fifty-six consecutive patients (28 in each arm) were enrolled, and the two groups were similar at study entry. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: The use of NPPV was well tolerated, safe, and associated with a significant reduction in respiratory rate, need for endotracheal intubation (21% versus 50%; p = 0.03), and duration of intensive care unit (ICU) stay (1.8 ± 0.7 d versus 6 ± 1.8 d; p = 0.04). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: The two groups had a similar intensity of nursing care workload, time interval from study entry to endotracheal intubation, duration of hospitalization, and hospital mortality. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Among patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), those randomized to NPPV had a lower intensity of nursing care workload (p = 0.04) and improved 2-mo survival (88.9% versus 37.5%; p = 0.05). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: We conclude that in selected patients with ARF caused by severe CAP, NPPV was associated with a significant reduction in the rate of endotracheal intubation and duration of ICU stay. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: A 2-mo survival advantage was seen in patients with COPD. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: CONTEXT Population surveys indicate that physical activity levels are low in the United States. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: One consequence of inactivity, low cardiorespiratory fitness, is an established risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and mortality, but the prevalence of cardiorespiratory fitness has not been quantified in representative US population samples. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: OBJECTIVES To describe the prevalence of low fitness in the US population aged 12 through 49 years and to relate low fitness to CVD risk factors in this population. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Inception cohort study using data from the cross-sectional nationally representative National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2002. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Participants were adolescents (aged 12-19 years; n = 3110) and adults (aged 20-49 years; n = 2205) free from previously diagnosed CVD who underwent submaximal graded exercise treadmill testing to achieve at least 75% to 90% of their age-predicted maximum heart rate. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) was estimated by measuring the heart rate response to reference levels of submaximal work. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Low fitness defined using percentile cut points of estimated VO2max from existing external referent populations; anthropometric and other CVD risk factors measured according to standard methods. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: RESULTS Low fitness was identified in 33.6% of adolescents (approximately 7.5 million US adolescents) and 13.9% of adults (approximately 8.5 million US adults); the prevalence was similar in adolescent females (34.4%) and males (32.9%) (P = .40) but was higher in adult females (16.2%) than in males (11.8%) (P = .03). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Non-Hispanic blacks and Mexican Americans were less fit than non-Hispanic whites. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: In all age-sex groups, body mass index and waist circumference were inversely associated with fitness; age- and race-adjusted odds ratios of overweight or obesity (body mass index > or =25) ranged from 2.1 to 3.7 (P<.01 for all), comparing persons with low fitness with those with moderate or high fitness. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Total cholesterol levels and systolic blood pressure were higher and levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were lower among participants with low vs high fitness. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: CONCLUSION Low fitness in adolescents and adults is common in the US population and is associated with an increased prevalence of CVD risk factors. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: BACKGROUND Acute kidney injury (AKI) after cardiac surgery is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: METHODS We assessed whether statin treatment is associated with a lower incidence of postoperative AKI in 2,104 consecutive patients who underwent coronary artery bypass graft or valve surgery at the Minneapolis Veterans Administration Medical Center. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Acute kidney injury was defined as absolute increase greater than 0.3 mg/dL or relative increase greater than 50% in serum creatinine from baseline, within 48 hours after surgery or requiring postoperative hemodialysis per AKI network. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Propensity scores were utilized to adjust for the differences between the statin and the no-statin treatment groups. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: All statins were converted to equivalent-dose simvastatin and divided at the median to construct high-dose (≥40 mg) and low-dose (<40 mg) statin groups. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: RESULTS Of the 2,104 patients, 1,435 (68%) were taking statins (638 high-dose) and 495 (24%) developed AKI (25% high-dose vs 40% low-dose vs 35% no-statin; p = 0.014). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Estimated preoperative glomerular filtration rate (p = 0.003), diabetes mellitus (p=0.02), valve surgery with or without coronary artery bypass graft (p = 0.024), cardiopulmonary bypass time (p = 0.001), and intraaortic balloon pump (p = 0.055) were independent predictors of AKI. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: After propensity adjustment statin treatment was not associated with postoperative AKI (odds ratio 0.79; 95% confidence interval 0.59 to 1.06; p = 0.11 for high-dose v. no-statin). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: After full adjustment for all independent predictors of AKI, the results did not change. Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: Statins also had no effect on the incidence of postoperative hemodialysis (0.8% high-dose vs 1.9% low-dose vs 1% no-statin; p = 0.15). Relevant:
Query: High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. Document: CONCLUSIONS Statin treatment is not associated with a lower incidence of AKI after cardiac surgery. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: BACKGROUND Knowledge gaps have contributed to considerable variation among international dietary recommendations for vitamin D.   OBJECTIVE We aimed to establish the distribution of dietary vitamin D required to maintain serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations above several proposed cutoffs (ie, 25, 37.5, 50, and 80 nmol/L) during wintertime after adjustment for the effect of summer sunshine exposure and diet. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: DESIGN A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind 22-wk intervention study was conducted in men and women aged 20-40 y (n = 238) by using different supplemental doses (0, 5, 10, and 15 microg/d) of vitamin D(3) throughout the winter. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: Serum 25(OH)D concentrations were measured by using enzyme-linked immunoassay at baseline (October 2006) and endpoint (March 2007). Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: RESULTS There were clear dose-related increments (P < 0.0001) in serum 25(OH)D with increasing supplemental vitamin D(3). Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: The slope of the relation between vitamin D intake and serum 25(OH)D was 1.96 nmol x L(-1) x microg(-1) intake. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: The vitamin D intake that maintained serum 25(OH)D concentrations of >25 nmol/L in 97.5% of the sample was 8.7 microg/d. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: This intake ranged from 7.2 microg/d in those who enjoyed sunshine exposure, 8.8 microg/d in those who sometimes had sun exposure, and 12.3 microg/d in those who avoided sunshine. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: Vitamin D intakes required to maintain serum 25(OH)D concentrations of >37.5, >50, and >80 nmol/L in 97.5% of the sample were 19.9, 28.0, and 41.1 microg/d, respectively. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: CONCLUSION The range of vitamin D intakes required to ensure maintenance of wintertime vitamin D status [as defined by incremental cutoffs of serum 25(OH)D] in the vast majority (>97.5%) of 20-40-y-old adults, considering a variety of sun exposure preferences, is between 7.2 and 41.1 microg/d. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: Recent evidence suggests that vitamin D intakes above current recommendations may be associated with better health outcomes. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: However, optimal serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] have not been defined. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: This review summarizes evidence from studies that evaluated thresholds for serum 25(OH)D concentrations in relation to bone mineral density (BMD), lower-extremity function, dental health, and risk of falls, fractures, and colorectal cancer. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: For all endpoints, the most advantageous serum concentrations of 25(OH)D begin at 75 nmol/L (30 ng/mL), and the best are between 90 and 100 nmol/L (36-40 ng/mL). Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: In most persons, these concentrations could not be reached with the currently recommended intakes of 200 and 600 IU vitamin D/d for younger and older adults, respectively. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: A comparison of vitamin D intakes with achieved serum concentrations of 25(OH)D for the purpose of estimating optimal intakes led us to suggest that, for bone health in younger adults and all studied outcomes in older adults, an increase in the currently recommended intake of vitamin D is warranted. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: An intake for all adults of > or =1000 IU (25 microg) [DOSAGE ERROR CORRECTED] vitamin D (cholecalciferol)/d is needed to bring vitamin D concentrations in no less than 50% of the population up to 75 nmol/L. The implications of higher doses for the entire adult population should be addressed in future studies. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: CONTEXT Vitamin D deficiency is associated with many adverse health outcomes, yet little is known about the genetic epidemiology of vitamin D or its metabolites. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: OBJECTIVE Our objective was to examine the relationship among three vitamin D-related genes and levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)2D] in Hispanics (HAs) and African Americans (AAs). Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: DESIGN AND SETTING The cross-sectional Insulin Resistance Atherosclerosis Family Study recruited and examined subjects in: Los Angeles, California (AAs; 513 individuals from 42 families); San Luis Valley (SLV), Colorado (HAs; 513 individuals from 30 families); and San Antonio (SA), Texas (HAs; 504 individuals from 58 families). Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Plasma levels of 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)2D were measured. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: RESULTS Levels of 25(OH)D were highest in SLV-HAs [18.3 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 7.7 ng/ml (45.7 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 19.2 nmol/liter)], lower in SA-HAs [14.6 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 6.4 ng/ml (36.4 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 16.0 nmol/liter)], and lowest in AAs [11.0 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 5.4 ng/ml (27.5 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 13.5 nmol/liter)]. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: Levels of 1,25(OH)2D were similar in AAs [43.5 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 13.9 pg/ml (113.1 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 36.1 pmol/liter)] and SLV-HAs [43.2 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 13.3 pg/ml (112.3 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 34.6 pmol/liter)], but higher in SA-HAs [48.6 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 17.0 pg/ml (126.4 +/- Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: 44.2 pmol/liter)]. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: After adjusting for gender and age within the site, two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the vitamin D binding protein gene (DBP), rs4588 and rs7041, were associated with 25(OH)D, and one SNP in the DBP, rs4588, was associated with 1,25(OH)2D at all three study centers. Relevant:
Query: High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. Document: CONCLUSIONS SNPs in the DBP are associated with levels of 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)2D in HA and AA participants in the Insulin Resistance Atherosclerosis Family Study. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: IMPORTANCE Exacerbations of respiratory symptoms in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have profound and long-lasting adverse effects on patients. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: OBJECTIVE To test the hypothesis that elevated levels of inflammatory biomarkers in individuals with stable COPD are associated with an increased risk of having exacerbations. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Prospective cohort study examining 61,650 participants with spirometry measurements from the Copenhagen City Heart Study (2001-2003) and the Copenhagen General Population Study (2003-2008). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Of these, 6574 had COPD, defined as a ratio between forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity below 0.7. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Baseline levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and fibrinogen and leukocyte count were measured in participants at a time when they were not experiencing symptoms of exacerbations. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Exacerbations were recorded and defined as short-course treatment with oral corticosteroids alone or in combination with an antibiotic or as a hospital admission due to COPD. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Levels of CRP and fibrinogen and leukocyte count were defined as high or low according to cut points of 3 mg/L, 14 μmol/L, and 9 ×10(9)/L, respectively. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: RESULTS During follow-up, 3083 exacerbations were recorded (mean, 0.5/participant). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: In the first year of follow-up, multivariable-adjusted odds ratios for having frequent exacerbations were 1.2 (95% CI, 0.7-2.2; 17 events/1000 person-years) for individuals with 1 high biomarker, 1.7 (95% CI, 0.9-3.2; 32 events/1000 person-years) for individuals with 2 high biomarkers, and 3.7 (95% CI, 1.9-7.4; 81 events/1000 person-years) for individuals with 3 high biomarkers compared with individuals who had no elevated biomarkers (9 events/1000 person-years; trend: P = 2 × 10(-5)). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Corresponding hazard ratios using maximum follow-up time were 1.4 (95% CI, 1.1-1.8), 1.6 (95% CI, 1.3-2.2), and 2.5 (95% CI, 1.8-3.4), respectively (trend: P = 1 × 10(-8)). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The addition of inflammatory biomarkers to a basic model including age, sex, FEV1 percent predicted, smoking, use of any inhaled medication, body mass index, history of previous exacerbations, and time since most recent prior exacerbation improved the C statistics from 0.71 to 0.73 (comparison: P = 9 × 10(-5)). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Relative risks were consistent in those with milder COPD, in those with no history of frequent exacerbations, and in the 2 studies separately. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The highest 5-year absolute risks of having frequent exacerbations in those with 3 high biomarkers (vs no high biomarkers) were 62% (vs 24%) for those with Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) grades C-D (n = 558), 98% (vs 64%) in those with a history of frequent exacerbations (n = 127), and 52% (vs 15%) for those with GOLD grades 3-4 (n = 465). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Simultaneously elevated levels of CRP and fibrinogen and leukocyte count in individuals with COPD were associated with increased risk of having exacerbations, even in those with milder COPD and in those without previous exacerbations. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Further investigation is needed to determine the clinical value of these biomarkers for risk stratification. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a global health problem, and since 2001, the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) has published its strategy document for the diagnosis and management of COPD. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: This executive summary presents the main contents of the second 5-year revision of the GOLD document that has implemented some of the vast knowledge about COPD accumulated over the last years. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Today, GOLD recommends that spirometry is required for the clinical diagnosis of COPD to avoid misdiagnosis and to ensure proper evaluation of severity of airflow limitation. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The document highlights that the assessment of the patient with COPD should always include assessment of (1) symptoms, (2) severity of airflow limitation, (3) history of exacerbations, and (4) comorbidities. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The first three points can be used to evaluate level of symptoms and risk of future exacerbations, and this is done in a way that splits patients with COPD into four categories-A, B, C, and D. Nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic management of COPD match this assessment in an evidence-based attempt to relieve symptoms and reduce risk of exacerbations. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Identification and treatment of comorbidities must have high priority, and a separate section in the document addresses management of comorbidities as well as COPD in the presence of comorbidities. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The revised document also contains a new section on exacerbations of COPD. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The GOLD initiative will continue to bring COPD to the attention of all relevant shareholders and will hopefully inspire future national and local guidelines on the management of COPD. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: PURPOSE To identify factors affecting the short-term prognosis of patients with acutely exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: PATIENTS AND METHODS The 590 patients having COPD as primary disease who were hospitalized in the pneumology unit of a university hospital from 1981 to 1990 were studied. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: A standardized protocol for the treatment of acutely exacerbated COPD was adopted for all the patients. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The patient records were retrospectively analyzed by two observers, and 23 clinical and laboratory variables defining the patient status on admission were collected. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Age and arterial gas data were also taken into account, and the outcome mortality was recorded. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Interobserver reproducibility was tested by computing the kappa coefficient and Spearman's rho for dichotomous and continuous variables, respectively. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The relationship of clinical and laboratory factors to the outcome was assessed first by univariate analysis and then by a logistic regression analysis assessing the independent predictive role of variables previously shown to be univariately correlated with mortality. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: RESULTS The mortality rate was 14.4%. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: The logistic regression analysis identified four independent predictors of death: age (odds ratio [OR] 1.07; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04 to 1.11), alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient greater than 41 mm Hg (OR 2.33; 95% CI 1.39 to 3.90), ventricular arrhythmias (OR 1.91; 95% CI 1.10 to 3.31), and atrial fibrillation (OR 2.27; 95% CI 1.14 to 4.51). Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: CONCLUSIONS Patients with acutely exacerbated COPD having a high risk of death can be identified at the time of admission. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Variables reflecting heart dysfunction are important determinants of this risk. Relevant:
Query: High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Document: Among pulmonary function data, only alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient contributes to the predictive model. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: CONTEXT The measurement of arginine vasopressin (AVP) is often cumbersome because it is unstable with a short half-life time. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: AVP is derived from a larger precursor peptide along with the more stable peptide copeptin. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Copeptin is the C-terminal part of provasopressin and has been shown to be a useful tool to indicate AVP concentration in critically ill patients. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: OBJECTIVE The objective of the study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of copeptin as a new marker in disordered states of blood volume and plasma osmolality. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: DESIGN AND SETTING This was a prospective observational study in a university hospital. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: PARTICIPANTS AND MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Three techniques with respective control studies were used in 24 healthy adults to produce changes in plasma osmolality and/or volume: 1) a 28-h water deprivation, 2) a 17-h hypertonic saline infusion combined with thirsting, and 3) a hypotonic saline infusion with iv desmopressin administration during free water intake. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: RESULTS Water deprivation produced a weight loss of 1.7 kg, an increase in plasma osmolality to 294.8 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 4.3 mosmol/kg, and an increase of copeptin from 4.6 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 1.7 pmol/liter to 9.2 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 5.2 pmol/liter (P < 0.0001). Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: During hypertonic saline infusion and thirsting with a raise of plasma osmolality to 296.1 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 3.4 mosmol/kg, copeptin increased from 4.9 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 3.0 pmol/liter to 19.9 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 4.8 pmol/liter (P < 0.0001). Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Conversely, during hypotonic saline infusion, plasma osmolality decreased to 271.3 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 4.1 mosmol/kg, and copeptin decreased from 6.2 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 2.4 pmol/liter to 2.4 +/- Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: 2.1 pmol/liter (P < 0.01). Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: CONCLUSION Copeptin shows identical changes during disordered water states as previously shown for AVP. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: It might be a reliable marker of AVP secretion and substitute for the measurement of circulating AVP levels in clinical routine. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Amino acids modulate the secretion of both insulin and glucagon; the composition of dietary protein therefore has the potential to influence the balance of glucagon and insulin activity. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Soy protein, as well as many other vegan proteins, are higher in non-essential amino acids than most animal-derived food proteins, and as a result should preferentially favor glucagon production. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Acting on hepatocytes, glucagon promotes (and insulin inhibits) cAMP-dependent mechanisms that down-regulate lipogenic enzymes and cholesterol synthesis, while up-regulating hepatic LDL receptors and production of the IGF-I antagonist IGFBP-1. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: The insulin-sensitizing properties of many vegan diets--high in fiber, low in saturated fat--should amplify these effects by down-regulating insulin secretion. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Additionally, the relatively low essential amino acid content of some vegan diets may decrease hepatic IGF-I synthesis. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Thus, diets featuring vegan proteins can be expected to lower elevated serum lipid levels, promote weight loss, and decrease circulating IGF-I activity. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: The latter effect should impede cancer induction (as is seen in animal studies with soy protein), lessen neutrophil-mediated inflammatory damage, and slow growth and maturation in children. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: In fact, vegans tend to have low serum lipids, lean physiques, shorter stature, later puberty, and decreased risk for certain prominent 'Western' cancers; a vegan diet has documented clinical efficacy in rheumatoid arthritis. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Low-fat vegan diets may be especially protective in regard to cancers linked to insulin resistance--namely, breast and colon cancer--as well as prostate cancer; conversely, the high IGF-I activity associated with heavy ingestion of animal products may be largely responsible for the epidemic of 'Western' cancers in wealthy societies. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Increased phytochemical intake is also likely to contribute to the reduction of cancer risk in vegans. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Regression of coronary stenoses has been documented during low-fat vegan diets coupled with exercise training; such regimens also tend to markedly improve diabetic control and lower elevated blood pressure. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Risk of many other degenerative disorders may be decreased in vegans, although reduced growth factor activity may be responsible for an increased risk of hemorrhagic stroke. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: By altering the glucagon/insulin balance, it is conceivable that supplemental intakes of key non-essential amino acids could enable omnivores to enjoy some of the health advantages of a vegan diet. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: An unnecessarily high intake of essential amino acids--either in the absolute sense or relative to total dietary protein--may prove to be as grave a risk factor for 'Western' degenerative diseases as is excessive fat intake. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate serum amylase and lipase levels and the rate of acute pancreatitis in patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular risk randomized to liraglutide or placebo and observed for 3.5-5.0 years. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS A total of 9,340 patients with type 2 diabetes were randomized to either liraglutide or placebo (median observation time 3.84 years). Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Fasting serum lipase and amylase were monitored. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Acute pancreatitis was adjudicated in a blinded manner. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: RESULTS Compared with the placebo group, liraglutide-treated patients had increases in serum lipase and amylase of 28.0% and 7.0%, respectively. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Levels were increased at 6 months and then remained stable. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: During the study, 18 (0.4% [1.1 events/1,000 patient-years of observation] [PYO]) liraglutide-treated and 23 (0.5% [1.7 events/1,000 PYO]) placebo patients had acute pancreatitis confirmed by adjudication. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Most acute pancreatitis cases occurred ≥12 months after randomization. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Liraglutide-treated patients with prior history of pancreatitis (n = 147) were not more likely to develop acute pancreatitis than similar patients in the placebo group (n = 120). Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Elevations of amylase and lipase levels did not predict future risk of acute pancreatitis (positive predictive value <1.0%) in patients treated with liraglutide. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: CONCLUSIONS In a population with type 2 diabetes at high cardiovascular risk, there were numerically fewer events of acute pancreatitis among liraglutide-treated patients (regardless of previous history of pancreatitis) compared with the placebo group. Relevant:
Query: High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. Document: Liraglutide was associated with increases in serum lipase and amylase, which were not predictive of an event of subsequent acute pancreatitis. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: OBJECTIVE To obtain summary estimates of the accuracy of a single baseline measurement of the Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay (Roche Diagnostics) for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: DESIGN Systematic review and meta-analysis of diagnostic test accuracy studies. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: DATA SOURCES Medline, Embase, and other relevant electronic databases were searched for papers published between January 2006 and December 2013. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: STUDY SELECTION Studies were included if they evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of a single baseline measurement of Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department with suspected acute coronary syndrome. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: STUDY APPRAISAL AND DATA SYNTHESIS The first author screened all titles and abstracts identified through the searches and selected all potentially relevant papers. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: The screening of the full texts, the data extraction, and the methodological quality assessment, using the adapted QUADAS-2 tool, were conducted independently by two reviewers with disagreements being resolved through discussion or arbitration. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: If appropriate, meta-analysis was conducted using the hierarchical bivariate model. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: RESULTS Twenty three studies reported the performance of the evaluated assay at presentation. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: The results for 14 ng/L and 3-5 ng/L cut-off values were pooled separately. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: At 14 ng/L (20 papers), the summary sensitivity was 89.5% (95% confidence interval 86.3% to 92.1%) and the summary specificity was 77.1% (68.7% to 83.7%). Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: At 3-5 ng/L (six papers), the summary sensitivity was 97.4% (94.9% to 98.7%) and the summary specificity was 42.4% (31.2% to 54.5%). Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: This means that if 21 of 100 consecutive patients have the target condition (21%, the median prevalence across the studies), 2 (95% confidence interval 2 to 3) of 21 patients with acute myocardial infarction will be missed (false negatives) if 14 ng/L is used as a cut-off value and 18 (13 to 25) of 79 patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive (false positives). Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: If the 3-5 ng/L cut-off value is used, <1 (0 to 1) patient with acute myocardial infarction will be missed and 46 (36 to 54) patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: CONCLUSIONS The results indicate that a single baseline measurement of the Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay could be used to rule out acute myocardial infarction if lower cut-off values such as 3 ng/L or 5 ng/L are used. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: However, this method should be part of a comprehensive triage strategy and may not be appropriate for patients who present less than three hours after symptom onset. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: Care must also be exercised because of the higher imprecision of the evaluated assay and the greater effect of lot-to-lot reagent variation at low troponin concentrations. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION PROSPERO registration number CRD42013003926. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: Unstable angina is a critical phase of coronary heart disease with widely variable symptoms and prognosis. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: A decade ago, a classification of unstable angina based on clinical symptoms was introduced. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: This system was then validated by prospective clinical studies to correlate with the prognosis and was linked to angiographic and histological findings. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: It has been used to categorize patients in many large clinical trials. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: In recent years, the pathophysiological roles of platelet activation and inflammation in unstable angina have been elucidated. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: Subsequently, improved markers of myocardial injury, acute-phase proteins, and hemostatic markers that may be associated with clinical outcomes have been identified. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: Particularly, cardiac-specific troponin T and troponin I have been shown to represent the best predictors of early risk in patients with angina at rest. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: Accordingly, it is suggested that the original classification be extended by subclassifying one large group of unstable angina patients, ie, those with angina at rest within the past 48 hours (class IIIB), into troponin-positive (T(pos)) and troponin-negative (T(neg)) patients. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: The 30-days risk for death and myocardial infarction is considered to be up to 20% in class IIIB-T(pos) but <2% in class IIIB-T(neg) patients. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: Initial results suggest that troponins may function as surrogate markers for thrombus formation and can effectively guide therapy with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists or low-molecular-weight heparins. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: These observations provide additional impetus for adding the measurement of these markers to the clinical classification and represent a novel concept of treating these high-risk patients. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: BACKGROUND A major challenge for physicians is to identify patients with acute coronary syndromes who may benefit from treatment with glycoprotein-IIb/IIIa-receptor antagonists. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: We investigated whether troponin concentrations can be used to stratify patients for benefit from treatment with tirofiban. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: METHODS We enrolled 2222 patients of the Platelet Receptor Inhibition in Ischemic Syndrome Management study with coronary artery disease and who had had chest pain in the previous 24 h. All patients received aspirin and were randomly assigned treatment with tirofiban or heparin. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: We took baseline measurements of troponin I and troponin T. We recorded death, myocardial infarction, or recurrent ischaemia after 48 h infusion treatment and at 7 days and 30 days. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: FINDINGS 629 (28.3%) patients had troponin I concentrations higher than the diagnostic threshold of 1.0 microg/L and 644 (29.0%) troponin T concentrations higher than 0.1 microg/L. 30-day event rates (death, myocardial infarction) were 13.0% for troponin-I-positive patients compared with 4.9% for troponin-I-negative patients (p<0.0001), and 13.7% compared wth 3.5% for troponin T (p<0.001). Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: At 30 days, in troponin-I-positive patients, tirofiban had lowered the risk of death (adjusted hazard ratio 0.25 [95% CI 0.09-0.68], p=0.004) and myocardial infarction (0.37 [0.16-0.84], p=0.01). Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: This benefit was seen in medically managed patients (0.30 [0.10-0.84], p=0.004) and those undergoing revascularisation (0.37 [0.15-0.93] p=0.02) after 48 h infusion treatment. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: By contrast, no treatment effect was seen for troponin-I-negative patients. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: Similar benefits were seen for troponin-T-positive patients. Relevant:
Query: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). Document: INTERPRETATION Troponin I and troponin T reliably identified high-risk patients with acute coronary syndromes, managed medically and by revascularisation, who would benefit from tirofiban. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Nuclear receptors undergo ligand-dependent conformational changes that are required for corepressor-coactivator exchange, but whether there is an actual requirement for specific epigenetic landmarks to impose ligand dependency for gene activation remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Here we report an unexpected and general strategy that is based on the requirement for specific cohorts of inhibitory histone methyltransferases (HMTs) to impose gene-specific gatekeeper functions that prevent unliganded nuclear receptors and other classes of regulated transcription factors from binding to their target gene promoters and causing constitutive gene activation in the absence of stimulating signals. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: This strategy, based at least in part on an HMT-dependent inhibitory histone code, imposes a requirement for specific histone demethylases, including LSD1, to permit ligand- and signal-dependent activation of regulated gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: These events link an inhibitory methylation component of the histone code to a broadly used strategy that circumvents pathological constitutive gene induction by physiologically regulated transcription factors. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: NuA4, the major H4 lysine acetyltransferase (KAT) complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is recruited to promoters and stimulates transcription initiation. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: NuA4 subunits contain domains that bind methylated histones, suggesting that histone methylation should target NuA4 to coding sequences during transcription elongation. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: We show that NuA4 is cotranscriptionally recruited, dependent on its physical association with elongating polymerase II (Pol II) phosphorylated on the C-terminal domain by cyclin-dependent kinase 7/Kin28, but independently of subunits (Eaf1 and Tra1) required for NuA4 recruitment to promoters. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Whereas histone methylation by Set1 and Set2 is dispensable for NuA4's interaction with Pol II and targeting to some coding regions, it stimulates NuA4-histone interaction and H4 acetylation in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: The NuA4 KAT, Esa1, mediates increased H4 acetylation and enhanced RSC occupancy and histone eviction in coding sequences and stimulates the rate of transcription elongation. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Esa1 cooperates with the H3 KAT in SAGA, Gcn5, to enhance these functions. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Our findings delineate a pathway for acetylation-mediated nucleosome remodeling and eviction in coding sequences that stimulates transcription elongation by Pol II in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Methylation of histones has been regarded as a stable modification defining the epigenetic program of the cell, which regulates chromatin structure and transcription. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: However, the recent discovery of histone demethylases has challenged the stable nature of histone methylation. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Here we demonstrate that the JARID1 proteins RBP2, PLU1, and SMCX are histone demethylases specific for di- and trimethylated histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4). Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Consistent with a role for the JARID1 Drosophila homolog Lid in regulating expression of homeotic genes during development, we show that RBP2 is displaced from Hox genes during embryonic stem (ES) cell differentiation correlating with an increase of their H3K4me3 levels and expression. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Furthermore, we show that mutation or RNAi depletion of the C. elegans JARID1 homolog rbr-2 leads to increased levels of H3K4me3 during larval development and defects in vulva formation. Relevant:
Query: Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. Document: Taken together, these results suggest that H3K4me3/me2 demethylation regulated by the JARID1 family plays an important role during development. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Mesenchymal cells contribute to the 'stroma' of most normal and malignant tissues, with specific mesenchymal cells participating in the regulatory niches of stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: By examining how mesenchymal osteolineage cells modulate haematopoiesis, here we show that deletion of Dicer1 specifically in mouse osteoprogenitors, but not in mature osteoblasts, disrupts the integrity of haematopoiesis. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Myelodysplasia resulted and acute myelogenous leukaemia emerged that had acquired several genetic abnormalities while having intact Dicer1. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Examining gene expression altered in osteoprogenitors as a result of Dicer1 deletion showed reduced expression of Sbds, the gene mutated in Schwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome-a human bone marrow failure and leukaemia pre-disposition condition. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Deletion of Sbds in mouse osteoprogenitors induced bone marrow dysfunction with myelodysplasia. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Therefore, perturbation of specific mesenchymal subsets of stromal cells can disorder differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis of heterologous cells, and disrupt tissue homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Furthermore, primary stromal dysfunction can result in secondary neoplastic disease, supporting the concept of niche-induced oncogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Mesenchymal niche cells may drive tissue failure and malignant transformation in the hematopoietic system, but the underlying molecular mechanisms and relevance to human disease remain poorly defined. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Here, we show that perturbation of mesenchymal cells in a mouse model of the pre-leukemic disorder Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (SDS) induces mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and activation of DNA damage responses in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Massive parallel RNA sequencing of highly purified mesenchymal cells in the SDS mouse model and a range of human pre-leukemic syndromes identified p53-S100A8/9-TLR inflammatory signaling as a common driving mechanism of genotoxic stress. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Transcriptional activation of this signaling axis in the mesenchymal niche predicted leukemic evolution and progression-free survival in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), the principal leukemia predisposition syndrome. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Collectively, our findings identify mesenchymal niche-induced genotoxic stress in heterotypic stem and progenitor cells through inflammatory signaling as a targetable determinant of disease outcome in human pre-leukemia. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Intermittent PTH administration builds bone mass and prevents fractures, but its mechanism of action is unclear. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: We genetically deleted the PTH/PTHrP receptor (PTH1R) in mesenchymal stem cells using Prx1Cre and found low bone formation, increased bone resorption, and high bone marrow adipose tissue (BMAT). Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Bone marrow adipocytes traced to Prx1 and expressed classic adipogenic markers and high receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand (Rankl) expression. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: RANKL levels were also elevated in bone marrow supernatant and serum, but undetectable in other adipose depots. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: By cell sorting, Pref1+RANKL+ marrow progenitors were twice as great in mutant versus control marrow. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Intermittent PTH administration to control mice reduced BMAT significantly. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: A similar finding was noted in male osteoporotic patients. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: Thus, marrow adipocytes exhibit osteogenic and adipogenic characteristics, are uniquely responsive to PTH, and secrete RANKL. Relevant:
Query: Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. Document: These studies reveal an important mechanism for PTH's therapeutic action through its ability to direct mesenchymal cell fate. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: One hypothesis that couples infection with autoimmune disease is molecular mimicry. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Molecular mimicry is characterized by an immune response to an environmental agent that cross-reacts with a host antigen, resulting in disease. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: This hypothesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetes, lupus and multiple sclerosis (MS). Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: There is limited direct evidence linking causative agents with pathogenic immune reactions in these diseases. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Our study establishes a clear link between viral infection, autoimmunity and neurological disease in humans. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: As a model for molecular mimicry, we studied patients with human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), a disease that can be indistinguishable from MS (refs. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: 5,6,7). Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: HAM/TSP patients develop antibodies to neurons. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: We hypothesized these antibodies would identify a central nervous system (CNS) autoantigen. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Immunoglobulin G isolated from HAM/TSP patients identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonuclear protein-A1 (hnRNP-A1) as the autoantigen. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Antibodies to hnRNP-A1 cross-reacted with HTLV-1-tax, the immune response to which is associated with HAM/TSP (refs. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: 5,9). Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Immunoglobulin G specifically stained human Betz cells, whose axons are preferentially damaged. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Infusion of autoantibodies in brain sections inhibited neuronal firing, indicative of their pathogenic nature. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: These data demonstrate the importance of molecular mimicry between an infecting agent and hnRNP-A1 in autoimmune disease of the CNS. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: We describe the clinical and pathological features of 23 Afro-Caribbean patients with adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma admitted to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Barbados over a 5 year period. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: There were 9 males and 14 females, with a median age of 38 years (range 14-84). Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Twelve had acute leukaemia, 10 lymphoma (including 4 with solitary extra nodal lesions) and 1 smouldering subtype. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Two patients had a past history of tropical spastic paraparesis/HTLV I associated myelopathy (TSP/HAM). Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: The prognosis was poor, with only 3 complete responses to chemotherapy (CHOP) lasting from 9 to 36 months. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: We conclude that ATLL in Barbados is similar to the disease in the other Caribbean islands and Japan, except that in Barbados the age of onset is over a decade younger than in Japan. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with multiple sclerosis (MS), and antibodies to the EBV nuclear antigen-1 (EBNA-1) are consistently increased in MS patients. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: The hypothesis of this study is that anti-EBNA-1 antibodies cross-react with a self antigen in MS patients. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: We affinity purified anti-EBNA-1 antibodies from human plasma, used the anti-EBNA-1 to immunoprecipitate antigens from human brain, and identified bound antigens with mass spectrometry. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Anti-EBNA-1 consistently bound heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L (HNRNPL). Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: We expressed both the long and short isoforms of this protein, and verified with Western blots and ELISA that the long isoform cross-reacts with EBNA-1. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that anti-EBNA-1 bound to an antigen in the nucleus of cultured rat central nervous system cells. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: ELISA demonstrated the presence of antibodies to HNRNPL in the plasma of both healthy controls and MS patients, but anti-HNRNPL was not increased in MS patients. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: We conclude that HNRNPL is an autoantigen which cross-reacts with EBNA-1. Relevant:
Query: Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. Document: The relevance of this autoantigen to MS and other autoimmune diseases remains to be investigated. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the effects of smoking, plasma lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins, and fibrinogen on the patency of saphenous vein femoropopliteal bypass grafts at one year. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: DESIGN Prospective study of patients with saphenous vein femoropopliteal bypass grafts entered into a multicentre trial. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: SETTING Surgical wards, outpatient clinics, and home visits coordinated by two tertiary referral centres in London and Birmingham. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: PATIENTS 157 Patients (mean age 66.6 (SD 8.2) years), 113 with patent grafts and 44 with occluded grafts one year after bypass. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Cumulative percentage patency at one year. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: RESULTS Markers for smoking (blood carboxyhaemoglobin concentration (p less than 0.05) and plasma thiocyanate concentration (p less than 0.01) and plasma concentrations of fibrinogen (p less than 0.001) and apolipoproteins AI (p less than 0.04) and (a) (p less than 0.05) were significantly higher in patients with occluded grafts. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Serum cholesterol concentrations were significantly higher in patients with grafts that remained patent one year after bypass (p less than 0.005). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Analysis of the smoking markers indicated that a quarter of patients (40) were untruthful in their claims to have stopped smoking. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Based on smoking markers, patency of grafts in smokers was significantly lower at one year by life table analysis than in non-smokers (63% v 84%, p less than 0.02). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Patency was significantly higher by life table analysis in patients with a plasma fibrinogen concentration below the median than in those with a concentration above (90% v 57%, p less than 0.0002). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Surprisingly, increased plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration was significantly associated with improved patency at one year (85%) at values above the median compared with patency (only 68%) at values in the lower half of the range (p less than 0.02). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: CONCLUSIONS Plasma fibrinogen concentration was the most important variable predicting graft occlusion, followed by smoking markers. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: A more forceful approach is needed to stop patients smoking; therapeutic measures to improve patency of vein grafts should focus on decreasing plasma fibrinogen concentration rather than serum cholesterol concentration. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: as compared with 103 (8.2 percent) in the control group; the Kaplan-Meier estimates of the likelihood of freedom from deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days were 94.1 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 92.5 to 95.4 percent) and 90.6 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 88.7 to 92.2 percent), respectively (P 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The computer alert reduced the risk of deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days by 41 percent (hazard ratio, 0.59; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.43 to 0.81; P 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: CONCLUSIONS The institution of a computer-alert program increased physicians’ use of prophylaxis and markedly reduced the rates of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism among hospitalized patients at risk. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Editorial Comment: Most hospitals have adopted electronic systems to alert physicians of drug interactions or possible substitutions, as well as other measures designed to improve the quality of care and decrease expenses. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: This approach was taken one step further by these authors, who evaluated whether notifying physicians that their patients were at increased risk for venous thromboembolism would decrease the incidence of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The premise was that simply notifying the physician would increase the use of appropriate prophylactic measures. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Major surgery (defined as anything requiring general anesthesia), cancer and age greater than 75 years were included among the risk factors, each of which frequently applies to a urology population. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: In fact, more than 13% of the patients in the intervention group had a known diagnosis of a genitourinary cancer. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The computer alert decreased the risk of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism by 41%. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: There are 2 lessons urologists can learn from this study. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: First, many urology patients are at increased risk for venous thromboembolism and appropriate prophylaxis should be used. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: In addition, although computer alert systems may seem intrusive at times, clinicians can expect to see more and more of them if there is further documentation that they improve the quality of care. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of using information from circulating biomarkers to inform the prioritisation process of patients with stable angina awaiting coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: DESIGN Decision analytical model comparing four prioritisation strategies without biomarkers (no formal prioritisation, two urgency scores, and a risk score) and three strategies based on a risk score using biomarkers: a routinely assessed biomarker (estimated glomerular filtration rate), a novel biomarker (C reactive protein), or both. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The order in which to perform coronary artery bypass grafting in a cohort of patients was determined by each prioritisation strategy, and mean lifetime costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) were compared. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: DATA SOURCES Swedish Coronary Angiography and Angioplasty Registry (9935 patients with stable angina awaiting coronary artery bypass grafting and then followed up for cardiovascular events after the procedure for 3.8 years), and meta-analyses of prognostic effects (relative risks) of biomarkers. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: RESULTS The observed risk of cardiovascular events while on the waiting list for coronary artery bypass grafting was 3 per 10,000 patients per day within the first 90 days (184 events in 9935 patients). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Using a cost effectiveness threshold of pound20,000- pound30,000 (euro22,000-euro33,000; $32,000-$48,000) per additional QALY, a prioritisation strategy using a risk score with estimated glomerular filtration rate was the most cost effective strategy (cost per additional QALY was < pound410 compared with the Ontario urgency score). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The impact on population health of implementing this strategy was 800 QALYs per 100,000 patients at an additional cost of pound 245,000 to the National Health Service. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The prioritisation strategy using a risk score with C reactive protein was associated with lower QALYs and higher costs compared with a risk score using estimated glomerular filtration rate. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: CONCLUSION Evaluating the cost effectiveness of prognostic biomarkers is important even when effects at an individual level are small. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Formal prioritisation of patients awaiting coronary artery bypass grafting using a routinely assessed biomarker (estimated glomerular filtration rate) along with simple, routinely collected clinical information was cost effective. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Prioritisation strategies based on the prognostic information conferred by C reactive protein, which is not currently measured in this context, or a combination of C reactive protein and estimated glomerular filtration rate, is unlikely to be cost effective. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The widespread practice of using only implicit or informal means of clinically ordering the waiting list may be harmful and should be replaced with formal prioritisation approaches. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the effects of smoking, plasma lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins, and fibrinogen on the patency of saphenous vein femoropopliteal bypass grafts at one year. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: DESIGN Prospective study of patients with saphenous vein femoropopliteal bypass grafts entered into a multicentre trial. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: SETTING Surgical wards, outpatient clinics, and home visits coordinated by two tertiary referral centres in London and Birmingham. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: PATIENTS 157 Patients (mean age 66.6 (SD 8.2) years), 113 with patent grafts and 44 with occluded grafts one year after bypass. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Cumulative percentage patency at one year. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: RESULTS Markers for smoking (blood carboxyhaemoglobin concentration (p less than 0.05) and plasma thiocyanate concentration (p less than 0.01) and plasma concentrations of fibrinogen (p less than 0.001) and apolipoproteins AI (p less than 0.04) and (a) (p less than 0.05) were significantly higher in patients with occluded grafts. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Serum cholesterol concentrations were significantly higher in patients with grafts that remained patent one year after bypass (p less than 0.005). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Analysis of the smoking markers indicated that a quarter of patients (40) were untruthful in their claims to have stopped smoking. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Based on smoking markers, patency of grafts in smokers was significantly lower at one year by life table analysis than in non-smokers (63% v 84%, p less than 0.02). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Patency was significantly higher by life table analysis in patients with a plasma fibrinogen concentration below the median than in those with a concentration above (90% v 57%, p less than 0.0002). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Surprisingly, increased plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration was significantly associated with improved patency at one year (85%) at values above the median compared with patency (only 68%) at values in the lower half of the range (p less than 0.02). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: CONCLUSIONS Plasma fibrinogen concentration was the most important variable predicting graft occlusion, followed by smoking markers. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: A more forceful approach is needed to stop patients smoking; therapeutic measures to improve patency of vein grafts should focus on decreasing plasma fibrinogen concentration rather than serum cholesterol concentration. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: as compared with 103 (8.2 percent) in the control group; the Kaplan-Meier estimates of the likelihood of freedom from deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days were 94.1 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 92.5 to 95.4 percent) and 90.6 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 88.7 to 92.2 percent), respectively (P 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The computer alert reduced the risk of deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days by 41 percent (hazard ratio, 0.59; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.43 to 0.81; P 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: CONCLUSIONS The institution of a computer-alert program increased physicians’ use of prophylaxis and markedly reduced the rates of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism among hospitalized patients at risk. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Editorial Comment: Most hospitals have adopted electronic systems to alert physicians of drug interactions or possible substitutions, as well as other measures designed to improve the quality of care and decrease expenses. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: This approach was taken one step further by these authors, who evaluated whether notifying physicians that their patients were at increased risk for venous thromboembolism would decrease the incidence of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The premise was that simply notifying the physician would increase the use of appropriate prophylactic measures. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: Major surgery (defined as anything requiring general anesthesia), cancer and age greater than 75 years were included among the risk factors, each of which frequently applies to a urology population. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: In fact, more than 13% of the patients in the intervention group had a known diagnosis of a genitourinary cancer. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: The computer alert decreased the risk of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism by 41%. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: There are 2 lessons urologists can learn from this study. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: First, many urology patients are at increased risk for venous thromboembolism and appropriate prophylaxis should be used. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: In addition, although computer alert systems may seem intrusive at times, clinicians can expect to see more and more of them if there is further documentation that they improve the quality of care. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: AIMS patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) have high platelet reactivity and are at increased risk of ischaemic events and bleeding post-acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: In the PLATelet inhibition and patient Outcomes (PLATO) trial, ticagrelor reduced the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke, but with similar rates of major bleeding compared with clopidogrel. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: We aimed to investigate the outcome with ticagrelor vs. clopidogrel in patients with DM or poor glycaemic control. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS we analysed patients with pre-existing DM (n = 4662), including 1036 patients on insulin, those without DM (n = 13 951), and subgroups based on admission levels of haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c; n = 15 150). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: In patients with DM, the reduction in the primary composite endpoint (HR: 0.88, 95% CI: 0.76-1.03), all-cause mortality (HR: 0.82, 95% CI: 0.66-1.01), and stent thrombosis (HR: 0.65, 95% CI: 0.36-1.17) with no increase in major bleeding (HR: 0.95, 95% CI: 0.81-1.12) with ticagrelor was consistent with the overall cohort and without significant diabetes status-by-treatment interactions. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: There was no heterogeneity between patients with or without ongoing insulin treatment. Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: ticagrelor reduced the primary endpoint, all-cause mortality, and stent thrombosis in patients with HbA1c above the median (HR: 0.80, 95% CI: 0.70-0.91; HR: 0.78, 95% CI: 0.65-0.93; and HR: 0.62, 95% CI: 0.39-1.00, respectively) with similar bleeding rates (HR: 0.98, 95% CI: 0.86-1.12). Relevant:
Query: Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. Document: CONCLUSION ticagrelor, when compared with clopidogrel, reduced ischaemic events in ACS patients irrespective of diabetic status and glycaemic control, without an increase in major bleeding events. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Type 2 diabetes mellitus is becoming a major health problem associated with excess morbidity and mortality. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: As the prevalence of type 2 diabetes is rapidly increasing, prevention of the disease should be considered as a key objective in the near future. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Besides lifestyle changes, various pharmacological treatments have proven their efficacy in placebo-controlled clinical trials, including antidiabetic drugs such as metformin, acarbose and troglitazone, or antiobesity agents such as orlistat. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Arterial hypertension, a clinical entity in which insulin resistance is common, is strongly associated with type 2 diabetes and may precede the disease by several years. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: While antihypertensive agents such as diuretics or β-adrenoceptor antagonists may worsen insulin resistance and impair glucose tolerance, newer antihypertensive agents exert neutral or even slightly positive metabolic effects. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Numerous clinical trials have investigated the effects of ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARAs) on insulin sensitivity in hypertensive patients, with or without diabetes, with no consistent results. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Almost half of the studies with ACE inhibitors in hypertensive nondiabetic individuals demonstrated a slight but significant increase in insulin sensitivity as assessed by insulin-stimulated glucose disposal during a euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp, while the other half failed to reveal any significant change. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: The effects of ARAs on insulin sensitivity are neutral in most studies. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Mechanisms of improvement of glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity through the inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) are complex. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: They may include improvement of blood flow and microcirculation in skeletal muscles and, thereby, enhancement of insulin and glucose delivery to the insulin-sensitive tissues, facilitating insulin signalling at the cellular level and improvement of insulin secretion by the β cells. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Six recent large-scale clinical studies reported a remarkably consistent reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes in hypertensive patients treated with either ACE inhibitors or ARAs for 3–6 years, compared with a thiazide diuretic, β-adrenoceptor antagonist, the calcium channel antagonist amlodipine or even placebo. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: The relative risk reduction averaged 14% (p = 0.034) in the CAPPP (Captopril Prevention Project) with captopril compared with a thiazide or β1-adrenoceptor antagonist, 34% (p < 0.001) in the HOPE (Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation) study with ramipril compared with placebo, 30% (p < 0.001) in the ALLHAT (Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial) with lisinopril compared with chlortalidone, 25% (p < 0.001) in the LIFE (Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in hypertension study) with losartan compared with atenolol, and 25% (p = 0.09) in the SCOPE (Study on Cognition and Prognosis in the Elderly) with candesartan cilexetil compared with placebo, and 23% (p < 0.0001) in the VALUE (Valsartan Antihypertensive Long-term Use Evaluation) trial with valsartan compared with amlodipine. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: All these studies considered the development of diabetes as a secondary endpoint, except the HOPE trial where it was a post hoc analysis. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: These encouraging observations led to the initiation of two large, prospective, placebo-controlled randomised clinical trials whose primary outcome is the prevention of type 2 diabetes: the DREAM (Diabetes REduction Approaches with ramipril and rosiglitazone Medications) trial with the ACE inhibitor ramipril and the NAVIGATOR (Nateglinide And Valsartan in Impaired Glucose Tolerance Outcomes Research) trial with the ARA valsartan. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Finally, ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) will also investigate as a secondary endpoint whether it is possible to prevent the development of type 2 diabetes by blocking the RAS with either an ACE inhibitor or an ARA or a combination of both. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Thus, the recent consistent observations of a 14–34% reduction of the development of diabetes in hypertensive patients receiving ACE inhibitors or ARAs are exciting. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: From a theoretical point of view, they emphasise that there are many aspects of the pathogenesis, prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes that still need to be uncovered. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: From a practical point of view, they may offer a new strategy to reduce the ongoing epidemic and burden of type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Diabetes is a group of chronic diseases characterized by hyperglycemia. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Modern medical care uses a vast array of lifestyle and pharmaceutical interventions aimed at preventing and controlling hyperglycemia. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: In addition to ensuring the adequate delivery of glucose to the tissues of the body, treatment of diabetes attempts to decrease the likelihood that the tissues of the body are harmed by hyperglycemia. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: The importance of protecting the body from hyperglycemia cannot be overstated; the direct and indirect effects on the human vascular tree are the major source of morbidity and mortality in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Generally, the injurious effects of hyperglycemia are separated into macrovascular complications (coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, and stroke) and microvascular complications (diabetic nephropathy, neuropathy, and retinopathy). Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: It is important for physicians to understand the relationship between diabetes and vascular disease because the prevalence of diabetes continues to increase in the United States, and the clinical armamentarium for primary and secondary prevention of these complications is also expanding. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: ### Diabetic retinopathy  Diabetic retinopathy may be the most common microvascular complication of diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: It is responsible for ∼ 10,000 new cases of blindness every year in the United States alone.1 The risk of developing diabetic retinopathy or other microvascular complications of diabetes depends on both the duration and the severity of hyperglycemia. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Development of diabetic retinopathy in patients with type 2 diabetes was found to be related to both severity of hyperglycemia and presence of hypertension in the U.K. Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), and most patients with type 1 diabetes develop evidence of retinopathy within 20 years of diagnosis.2,3 Retinopathy may begin to develop as early as 7 years before the diagnosis of diabetes in patients with type 2 diabetes.1 There are several proposed pathological mechanisms by which diabetes may lead … Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: CONTEXT Although acute hypoglycemia may be associated with cognitive impairment in children with type 1 diabetes, no studies to date have evaluated whether hypoglycemia is a risk factor for dementia in older patients with type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine if hypoglycemic episodes severe enough to require hospitalization are associated with an increased risk of dementia in a population of older patients with type 2 diabetes followed up for 27 years. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS A longitudinal cohort study from 1980-2007 of 16,667 patients with a mean age of 65 years and type 2 diabetes who are members of an integrated health care delivery system in northern California. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Hypoglycemic events from 1980-2002 were collected and reviewed using hospital discharge and emergency department diagnoses. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Cohort members with no prior diagnoses of dementia, mild cognitive impairment, or general memory complaints as of January 1, 2003, were followed up for a dementia diagnosis through January 15, 2007. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Dementia risk was examined using Cox proportional hazard regression models, adjusted for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, body mass index, duration of diabetes, 7-year mean glycated hemoglobin, diabetes treatment, duration of insulin use, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, stroke, transient cerebral ischemia, and end-stage renal disease. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: RESULTS At least 1 episode of hypoglycemia was diagnosed in 1465 patients (8.8%) and dementia was diagnosed in 1822 patients (11%) during follow-up; 250 patients had both dementia and at least 1 episode of hypoglycemia (16.95%). Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Compared with patients with no hypoglycemia, patients with single or multiple episodes had a graded increase in risk with fully adjusted hazard ratios (HRs): for 1 episode (HR, 1.26; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.10-1.49); 2 episodes (HR, 1.80; 95% CI, 1.37-2.36); and 3 or more episodes (HR, 1.94; 95% CI, 1.42-2.64). Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: The attributable risk of dementia between individuals with and without a history of hypoglycemia was 2.39% per year (95% CI, 1.72%-3.01%). Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Results were not attenuated when medical utilization rates, length of health plan membership, or time since initial diabetes diagnosis were added to the model. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: When examining emergency department admissions for hypoglycemia for association with risk of dementia (535 episodes), results were similar (compared with patients with 0 episodes) with fully adjusted HRs: for 1 episode (HR, 1.42; 95% CI, 1.12-1.78) and for 2 or more episodes (HR, 2.36; 95% CI, 1.57-3.55). Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: CONCLUSIONS Among older patients with type 2 diabetes, a history of severe hypoglycemic episodes was associated with a greater risk of dementia. Relevant:
Query: Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. Document: Whether minor hypoglycemic episodes increase risk of dementia is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Panic disorder is a severe anxiety disorder with recurrent, debilitating panic attacks. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: In individuals with panic disorder there is evidence of decreased central gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) activity as well as marked increases in autonomic and respiratory responses after intravenous infusions of hypertonic sodium lactate. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: In a rat model of panic disorder, chronic inhibition of GABA synthesis in the dorsomedial-perifornical hypothalamus of rats produces anxiety-like states and a similar vulnerability to sodium lactate-induced cardioexcitatory responses. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: The dorsomedial-perifornical hypothalamus is enriched in neurons containing orexin (ORX, also known as hypocretin), which have a crucial role in arousal, vigilance and central autonomic mobilization, all of which are key components of panic. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Here we show that activation of ORX-synthesizing neurons is necessary for developing a panic-prone state in the rat panic model, and either silencing of the hypothalamic gene encoding ORX (Hcrt) with RNAi or systemic ORX-1 receptor antagonists blocks the panic responses. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Moreover, we show that human subjects with panic anxiety have elevated levels of ORX in the cerebrospinal fluid compared to subjects without panic anxiety. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Taken together, our results suggest that the ORX system may be involved in the pathophysiology of panic anxiety and that ORX antagonists constitute a potential new treatment strategy for panic disorder. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Reprogramming of somatic cells into pluripotency stem cell state has opened new opportunities in cell replacement therapy and disease modeling in a number of neurological disorders. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: It still remains unknown, however, to what degree the grafted human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) differentiate into a functional neuronal phenotype and if they integrate into the host circuitry. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Here, we present a detailed characterization of the functional properties and synaptic integration of hiPSC-derived neurons grafted in an in vitro model of hyperexcitable epileptic tissue, namely organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs), and in adult rats in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: The hiPSCs were first differentiated into long-term self-renewing neuroepithelial stem (lt-NES) cells, which are known to form primarily GABAergic neurons. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: When differentiated in OHSCs for 6 weeks, lt-NES cell-derived neurons displayed neuronal properties such as tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents and action potentials (APs), as well as both spontaneous and evoked postsynaptic currents, indicating functional afferent synaptic inputs. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: The grafted cells had a distinct electrophysiological profile compared to host cells in the OHSCs with higher input resistance, lower resting membrane potential, and APs with lower amplitude and longer duration. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: To investigate the origin of synaptic afferents to the grafted lt-NES cell-derived neurons, the host neurons were transduced with Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and optogenetically activated by blue light. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Simultaneous recordings of synaptic currents in grafted lt-NES cell-derived neurons using whole-cell patch-clamp technique at 6 weeks after grafting revealed limited synaptic connections from host neurons. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Longer differentiation times, up to 24 weeks after grafting in vivo, revealed more mature intrinsic properties and extensive synaptic afferents from host neurons to the lt-NES cell-derived neurons, suggesting that these cells require extended time for differentiation/maturation and synaptogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: However, even at this later time point, the grafted cells maintained a higher input resistance. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: These data indicate that grafted lt-NES cell-derived neurons receive ample afferent input from the host brain. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Since the lt-NES cells used in this study show a strong propensity for GABAergic differentiation, the host-to-graft synaptic afferents may facilitate inhibitory neurotransmitter release, and normalize hyperexcitable neuronal networks in brain diseases, for example, such as epilepsy. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Contusive spinal cord injury leads to a variety of disabilities owing to limited neuronal regeneration and functional plasticity. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: It is well established that an upregulation of glial-derived chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) within the glial scar and perineuronal net creates a barrier to axonal regrowth and sprouting. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Protein tyrosine phosphatase σ (PTPσ), along with its sister phosphatase leukocyte common antigen-related (LAR) and the nogo receptors 1 and 3 (NgR), have recently been identified as receptors for the inhibitory glycosylated side chains of CSPGs. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Here we find in rats that PTPσ has a critical role in converting growth cones into a dystrophic state by tightly stabilizing them within CSPG-rich substrates. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: We generated a membrane-permeable peptide mimetic of the PTPσ wedge domain that binds to PTPσ and relieves CSPG-mediated inhibition. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Systemic delivery of this peptide over weeks restored substantial serotonergic innervation to the spinal cord below the level of injury and facilitated functional recovery of both locomotor and urinary systems. Relevant:
Query: Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. Document: Our results add a new layer of understanding to the critical role of PTPσ in mediating the growth-inhibited state of neurons due to CSPGs within the injured adult spinal cord. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: CONTEXT Although acute hypoglycemia may be associated with cognitive impairment in children with type 1 diabetes, no studies to date have evaluated whether hypoglycemia is a risk factor for dementia in older patients with type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine if hypoglycemic episodes severe enough to require hospitalization are associated with an increased risk of dementia in a population of older patients with type 2 diabetes followed up for 27 years. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS A longitudinal cohort study from 1980-2007 of 16,667 patients with a mean age of 65 years and type 2 diabetes who are members of an integrated health care delivery system in northern California. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Hypoglycemic events from 1980-2002 were collected and reviewed using hospital discharge and emergency department diagnoses. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Cohort members with no prior diagnoses of dementia, mild cognitive impairment, or general memory complaints as of January 1, 2003, were followed up for a dementia diagnosis through January 15, 2007. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Dementia risk was examined using Cox proportional hazard regression models, adjusted for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, body mass index, duration of diabetes, 7-year mean glycated hemoglobin, diabetes treatment, duration of insulin use, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, stroke, transient cerebral ischemia, and end-stage renal disease. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: RESULTS At least 1 episode of hypoglycemia was diagnosed in 1465 patients (8.8%) and dementia was diagnosed in 1822 patients (11%) during follow-up; 250 patients had both dementia and at least 1 episode of hypoglycemia (16.95%). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Compared with patients with no hypoglycemia, patients with single or multiple episodes had a graded increase in risk with fully adjusted hazard ratios (HRs): for 1 episode (HR, 1.26; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.10-1.49); 2 episodes (HR, 1.80; 95% CI, 1.37-2.36); and 3 or more episodes (HR, 1.94; 95% CI, 1.42-2.64). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: The attributable risk of dementia between individuals with and without a history of hypoglycemia was 2.39% per year (95% CI, 1.72%-3.01%). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Results were not attenuated when medical utilization rates, length of health plan membership, or time since initial diabetes diagnosis were added to the model. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: When examining emergency department admissions for hypoglycemia for association with risk of dementia (535 episodes), results were similar (compared with patients with 0 episodes) with fully adjusted HRs: for 1 episode (HR, 1.42; 95% CI, 1.12-1.78) and for 2 or more episodes (HR, 2.36; 95% CI, 1.57-3.55). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: CONCLUSIONS Among older patients with type 2 diabetes, a history of severe hypoglycemic episodes was associated with a greater risk of dementia. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Whether minor hypoglycemic episodes increase risk of dementia is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the frequency of moderate and severe hypoglycemia and to identify clinical predictors associated with its occurrence in a large population-based sample of children and adolescents with IDDM. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS A total of 657 patients (age: 12.1 +/- Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: 4.4 years, mean +/- Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: SD) were included in the study, yielding 1,449 patient-years of data. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: A prospective assessment of severe hypoglycemia (an event resulting in a seizure or coma) and moderate hypoglycemia (an event requiring assistance of another, excluding severe episodes) was made over a 3-year period. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Patients and caregivers detailed episodes of significant hypoglycemia (moderate and severe events) and these were recorded at each 3-month clinic visit along with HbA1c. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Data were analyzed using generalized estimating equation models fitted with the exchange correlation structure. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: RESULTS The overall incidence of severe events was 4.8/100 patient-years and of moderate events was 13.1/100 patient-years. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Over 3 years, severe events occurred in 8.5% of children and moderate events occurred in 26.9%. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Significant hypoglycemia was rare in the first 12 months after diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Rates of hypoglycemia were increased in children < 6 years of age versus > 6 years of age (40.9 vs. 16.6/100 patient-years, age < or = 6 years vs. age > 6 years, P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Rates of hypoglycemia doubled when HbA1c fell below 8%, and children with HbA1c < 7% had a threefold increase in both moderate and severe hypoglycemia (e.g., severe episodes 14.9 vs. 4.1/100 patient-years, HbA1c < or = 7% vs. HbA1c > 7%, P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Most severe events were seizures, and 75% of them occurred at night. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: The majority of events were related to missed meals or increased activity. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: However, in 38% no predisposing factor was evident. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: CONCLUSIONS Newly diagnosed children appear to be protected from severe hypoglycemia. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Rates increase with lower glycated hemoglobin, especially when mean HbA1c is < 8.0%. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Younger children, who may be more susceptible to the adverse effects of neuroglycopenia, are at a particular risk of significant hypoglycemia. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the prevalence and clinical associations of impaired awareness of hypoglycemia in a population-based sample of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS A validated questionnaire was administered to 656 patients with type 1 diabetes over a 6-month period to determine hypoglycemia awareness status. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Case ascertainment was 79% of the clinic population. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: The rate of severe hypoglycemia was determined by data collected prospectively in the preceding year. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: RESULTS Impaired awareness of hypoglycemia was present in 29% of patients. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Patients with impaired awareness of hypoglycemia had an earlier onset of diabetes (P < 0.001), were younger (P < 0.001), and had lower mean levels of A1C since diabetes onset (P = 0.006) and at their last visit (P = 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: The overall rate of severe hypoglycemia was 24.5 episodes per 100 patient-years in the preceding year. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: The severe hypoglycemia rate was higher in those with impaired awareness of hypoglycemia (37.1 vs. 19.3 episodes per 100 patient-years, P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Among patients aged <6 years (n = 46), 59% of care providers reported impaired awareness of hypoglycemia, and the rate of severe hypoglycemia was significantly higher in those reporting impaired awareness (33.3 vs. 52 episodes per 100 patient-years, P = 0.02). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: More patients with recurrent hypoglycemia reported impaired awareness of hypoglycemia (47 vs. 28%, P = 0.03). Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: CONCLUSIONS A significant proportion of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes have impaired awareness of hypoglycemia. Relevant:
Query: Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. Document: Screening for impaired awareness is an important component of routine diabetes care and can identify patients at increased risk of a severe hypoglycemic event. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Glial cells perform critical functions that alter the metabolism and activity of neurons, and there is increasing interest in their role in appetite and energy balance. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Leptin, a key regulator of appetite and metabolism, has previously been reported to influence glial structural proteins and morphology. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Here, we demonstrate that metabolic status and leptin also modify astrocyte-specific glutamate and glucose transporters, indicating that metabolic signals influence synaptic efficacy and glucose uptake and, ultimately, neuronal function. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: We found that basal and glucose-stimulated electrical activity of hypothalamic proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons in mice were altered in the offspring of mothers fed a high-fat diet. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: In adulthood, increased body weight and fasting also altered the expression of glucose and glutamate transporters. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: These results demonstrate that whole-organism metabolism alters hypothalamic glial cell activity and suggest that these cells play an important role in the pathology of obesity. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: The cognitive deficits observed in children with cyanotic congenital heart disease suggest involvement of the developing hippocampus. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Chronic postnatal hypoxia present during infancy in these children may play a role in these impairments. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: To understand the biochemical mechanisms of hippocampal injury in chronic hypoxia, a neurochemical profile consisting of 15 metabolite concentrations and 2 metabolite ratios in the hippocampus was evaluated in a rat model of chronic postnatal hypoxia using in vivo 1H NMR spectroscopy at 9.4 T. Chronic hypoxia was induced by continuously exposing rats (n = 23) to 10% O2 from postnatal day (P) 3 to P28. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Fifteen metabolites were quantified from a volume of 9-11 microl centered on the left hippocampus on P14, P21, and P28 and were compared with normoxic controls (n = 14). Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: The developmental trajectory of neurochemicals in chronic hypoxia was similar to that seen in normoxia. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: However, chronic hypoxia had an effect on the concentrations of the following neurochemicals: aspartate, creatine, phosphocreatine, GABA, glutamate, glutamine, glutathione, myoinositol, N-acetylaspartate (NAA), phosphorylethanolamine, and phosphocreatine/creatine (PCr/Cr) and glutamate/glutamine (Glu/Gln) ratios (P < 0.001 each, except glutamate, P = 0.04). Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: The increased PCr/Cr ratio is consistent with decreased brain energy consumption. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Given the well-established link between excitatory neurotransmission and brain energy metabolism, we postulate that elevated glutamate, Glu/Gln ratio, and GABA indicate suppressed excitatory neurotransmission in an energy-limited environment. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Decreased NAA and phosphorylethanolamine suggest reduced neuronal integrity and phospholipid metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: The altered hippocampal neurochemistry during its development may underlie some of the cognitive deficits present in human infants at risk of chronic hypoxia. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: BACKGROUND Relapse to cocaine seeking has been linked with low glutamate in the nucleus accumbens core (NAcore) causing potentiation of synaptic glutamate transmission from prefrontal cortex (PFC) afferents. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Systemic N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been shown to restore glutamate homeostasis, reduce relapse to cocaine seeking, and depotentiate PFC-NAcore synapses. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Here, we examine the effects of NAC applied directly to the NAcore on relapse and neurotransmission in PFC-NAcore synapses, as well as the involvement of the metabotropic glutamate receptors 2/3 (mGluR2/3) and 5 (mGluR5). Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: METHODS Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine for 2 weeks and following extinction received either intra-accumbens NAC or systemic NAC 30 or 120 minutes, respectively, before inducing reinstatement with a conditioned cue or a combined cue and cocaine injection. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: We also recorded postsynaptic currents using in vitro whole cell recordings in acute slices and measured cystine and glutamate uptake in primary glial cultures. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: RESULTS NAC microinjection into the NAcore inhibited the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: In slices, a low concentration of NAC reduced the amplitude of evoked glutamatergic synaptic currents in the NAcore in an mGluR2/3-dependent manner, while high doses of NAC increased amplitude in an mGluR5-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Both effects depended on NAC uptake through cysteine transporters and activity of the cysteine/glutamate exchanger. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: Finally, we showed that by blocking mGluR5 the inhibition of cocaine seeking by NAC was potentiated. Relevant:
Query: Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. Document: CONCLUSIONS The effect of NAC on relapse to cocaine seeking depends on the balance between stimulating mGluR2/3 and mGluR5 in the NAcore, and the efficacy of NAC can be improved by simultaneously inhibiting mGluR5. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm cannot access the host nuclear capping machinery. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: These viruses have evolved viral methyltransferase(s) to methylate N-7 and 2'-O cap of their RNA; alternatively, they "snatch" host mRNA cap to form the 5' end of viral RNA. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: The function of 2'-O methylation of viral RNA cap is to mimic cellular mRNA and to evade host innate immune restriction. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: A cytoplasmic virus defective in 2'-O methylation is replicative, but its viral RNA lacks 2'-O methylation and is recognized and eliminated by the host immune response. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Such a mutant virus could be rationally designed as a live attenuated vaccine. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Here, we use Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), an important mosquito-borne flavivirus, to prove this novel vaccine concept. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: We show that JEV methyltransferase is responsible for both N-7 and 2'-O cap methylations as well as evasion of host innate immune response. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Recombinant virus completely defective in 2'-O methylation was stable in cell culture after being passaged for >30 days. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: The mutant virus was attenuated in mice, elicited robust humoral and cellular immune responses, and retained the engineered mutation in vivo. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: A single dose of immunization induced full protection against lethal challenge with JEV strains in mice. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Mechanistically, the attenuation phenotype was attributed to the enhanced sensitivity of the mutant virus to the antiviral effects of interferon and IFIT proteins. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Collectively, the results demonstrate the feasibility of using 2'-O methylation-defective virus as a vaccine approach; this vaccine approach should be applicable to other flaviviruses and nonflaviviruses that encode their own viral 2'-O methyltransferases. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: The 5′ cap structures of higher eukaryote mRNAs have ribose 2′-O-methylation. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Likewise, many viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm of eukaryotes have evolved 2′-O-methyltransferases to autonomously modify their mRNAs. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: However, a defined biological role for 2′-O-methylation of mRNA remains elusive. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Here we show that 2′-O-methylation of viral mRNA was critically involved in subverting the induction of type I interferon. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: We demonstrate that human and mouse coronavirus mutants lacking 2′-O-methyltransferase activity induced higher expression of type I interferon and were highly sensitive to type I interferon. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Notably, the induction of type I interferon by viruses deficient in 2′-O-methyltransferase was dependent on the cytoplasmic RNA sensor Mda5. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: This link between Mda5-mediated sensing of viral RNA and 2′-O-methylation of mRNA suggests that RNA modifications such as 2′-O-methylation provide a molecular signature for the discrimination of self and non-self mRNA. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Micro (mi)RNAs are small non-coding RNAs that regulate the expression of their targets' messenger RNAs through both translational inhibition and regulation of target RNA stability. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Recently, a number of viruses, particularly of the herpesvirus family, have been shown to express their own miRNAs to control both viral and cellular transcripts. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Although some targets of viral miRNAs are known, their function in a physiologically relevant infection remains to be elucidated. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: As such, no in vivo phenotype of a viral miRNA knock-out mutant has been described so far. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Here, we report on the first functional phenotype of a miRNA knock-out virus in vivo. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: During subacute infection of a mutant mouse cytomegalovirus lacking two viral miRNAs, virus production is selectively reduced in salivary glands, an organ essential for virus persistence and horizontal transmission. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: This phenotype depends on several parameters including viral load and mouse genetic background, and is abolished by combined but not single depletion of natural killer (NK) and CD4+ T cells. Relevant:
Query: IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. Document: Together, our results point towards a miRNA-based immunoevasion mechanism important for long-term virus persistence. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Although susceptibility of neurons in the brain to microbial infection is a major determinant of clinical outcome, little is known about the molecular factors governing this vulnerability. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Here we show that two types of neurons from distinct brain regions showed differential permissivity to replication of several positive-stranded RNA viruses. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Granule cell neurons of the cerebellum and cortical neurons from the cerebral cortex have unique innate immune programs that confer differential susceptibility to viral infection ex vivo and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: By transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs; Ifi27, Irg1 and Rsad2 (also known as Viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Moreover, we found that the epigenetic state and microRNA (miRNA)-mediated regulation of ISGs correlates with enhanced antiviral response in granule cell neurons. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Thus, neurons from evolutionarily distinct brain regions have unique innate immune signatures, which probably contribute to their relative permissiveness to infection. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Mosquito-borne viruses cause significant levels of morbidity and mortality in humans and domesticated animals. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Maintenance of mosquito-borne viruses in nature requires a biological transmission cycle that involves alternating virus replication in a susceptible vertebrate and mosquito host. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Although the vertebrate infection is acute and often associated with disease, continual transmission of these viruses in nature depends on the establishment of a persistent, nonpathogenic infection in the mosquito vector. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: An antiviral RNAi response has been shown to limit the replication of RNA viruses in flies. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: However, the importance of the RNAi pathway as an antiviral defense in mammals is unclear. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Differences in the immune responses of mammals and mosquitoes may explain why these viruses are not generally associated with pathology in the invertebrate host. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: We identified virus-derived small interfering RNAs (viRNAs), 21 nt in length, in Aedes aegypti infected with the mosquito-borne virus, Sindbis (SINV). Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: viRNAs had an asymmetric distribution that spanned the length of the SINV genome. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: To determine the role of viRNAs in controlling pathogenic potential, mosquitoes were infected with recombinant alphaviruses expressing suppressors of RNA silencing. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Decreased survival was observed in mosquitoes in which the accumulation of viRNAs was suppressed. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: These results suggest that an exogenous siRNA pathway is essential to the survival of mosquitoes infected with alphaviruses and, thus, the maintenance of these viruses in nature. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm cannot access the host nuclear capping machinery. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: These viruses have evolved viral methyltransferase(s) to methylate N-7 and 2'-O cap of their RNA; alternatively, they "snatch" host mRNA cap to form the 5' end of viral RNA. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: The function of 2'-O methylation of viral RNA cap is to mimic cellular mRNA and to evade host innate immune restriction. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: A cytoplasmic virus defective in 2'-O methylation is replicative, but its viral RNA lacks 2'-O methylation and is recognized and eliminated by the host immune response. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Such a mutant virus could be rationally designed as a live attenuated vaccine. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Here, we use Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), an important mosquito-borne flavivirus, to prove this novel vaccine concept. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: We show that JEV methyltransferase is responsible for both N-7 and 2'-O cap methylations as well as evasion of host innate immune response. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Recombinant virus completely defective in 2'-O methylation was stable in cell culture after being passaged for >30 days. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: The mutant virus was attenuated in mice, elicited robust humoral and cellular immune responses, and retained the engineered mutation in vivo. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: A single dose of immunization induced full protection against lethal challenge with JEV strains in mice. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Mechanistically, the attenuation phenotype was attributed to the enhanced sensitivity of the mutant virus to the antiviral effects of interferon and IFIT proteins. Relevant:
Query: IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. Document: Collectively, the results demonstrate the feasibility of using 2'-O methylation-defective virus as a vaccine approach; this vaccine approach should be applicable to other flaviviruses and nonflaviviruses that encode their own viral 2'-O methyltransferases. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: The T-cell receptor (TCR) consists of a TCRαβ heterodimer, a TCRζ homodimer, and CD3γε and CD3δε heterodimers. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: The precise mechanism of T-cell triggering following TCR ligand engagement remains elusive. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Previous studies reported that the cytoplasmic tail of CD3ε binds to the plasma membrane through a basic residue-rich stretch (BRS) and proposed that dissociation from the membrane is required for phosphorylation thereof. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: In this report we show that BRS motifs within the cytoplasmic tail of TCRζ mediate association with the plasma membrane and that TCR engagement results in TCRζ dissociation from the membrane. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: This dissociation requires phosphorylation of the TCRζ immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs by lymphocyte cell-specificprotein tyrosine kinase (Lck) but not ζ-chain-associated protein kinase 70 binding. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Mutations of the TCRζ BRS motifs that disrupt this membrane association attenuate proximal and distal responses induced by TCR engagement. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: These mutations appear to alter the localization of TCRζ with respect to Lck as well as the mobility of the TCR complex. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: This study reveals that tyrosine phosphorylation of the TCRζ cytoplasmic domain regulates its association with the plasma membrane and highlights the functional importance of TCRζ BRS motifs. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: The CD3ε and ζ cytoplasmic domains of the T cell receptor bind to the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane (PM), and a previous nuclear magnetic resonance structure showed that both tyrosines of the CD3ε immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif partition into the bilayer. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Electrostatic interactions between acidic phospholipids and clusters of basic CD3ε residues were previously shown to be essential for CD3ε and ζ membrane binding. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Phosphatidylserine (PS) is the most abundant negatively charged lipid on the inner leaflet of the PM and makes a major contribution to membrane binding by the CD3ε cytoplasmic domain. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Here, we show that TCR triggering by peptide--MHC complexes induces dissociation of the CD3ε cytoplasmic domain from the plasma membrane. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Release of the CD3ε cytoplasmic domain from the membrane is accompanied by a substantial focal reduction in negative charge and available PS in TCR microclusters. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: These changes in the lipid composition of TCR microclusters even occur when TCR signaling is blocked with a Src kinase inhibitor. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Local changes in the lipid composition of TCR microclusters thus render the CD3ε cytoplasmic domain accessible during early stages of T cell activation. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: T cell receptor (TCR-CD3) triggering involves both receptor clustering and conformational changes at the cytoplasmic tails of the CD3 subunits. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: The mechanism by which TCRalphabeta ligand binding confers conformational changes to CD3 is unknown. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: By using well-defined ligands, we showed that induction of the conformational change requires both multivalent engagement and the mobility restriction of the TCR-CD3 imposed by the plasma membrane. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: The conformational change is elicited by cooperative rearrangements of two TCR-CD3 complexes and does not require accompanying changes in the structure of the TCRalphabeta ectodomains. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: This conformational change at CD3 reverts upon ligand dissociation and is required for T cell activation. Relevant:
Query: ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). Document: Thus, our permissive geometry model provides a molecular mechanism that rationalizes how the information of ligand binding to TCRalphabeta is transmitted to the CD3 subunits and to the intracellular signaling machinery. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Celiac disease is an immune-mediated disorder in which mucosal autoantibodies to the enzyme transglutaminase 2 (TG2) are generated in response to the exogenous antigen gluten in individuals who express human leukocyte antigen HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8 (ref. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: 3). Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: We assessed in a comprehensive and nonbiased manner the IgA anti-TG2 response by expression cloning of the antibody repertoire of ex vivo–isolated intestinal antibody-secreting cells (ASCs). Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: We found that TG2-specific plasma cells are markedly expanded within the duodenal mucosa in individuals with active celiac disease. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: TG2-specific antibodies were of high affinity yet showed little adaptation by somatic mutations. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Unlike infection-induced peripheral blood plasmablasts, the TG2-specific ASCs had not recently proliferated and were not short-lived ex vivo. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Altogether, these observations demonstrate that there is a germline repertoire with high affinity for TG2 that may favor massive generation of autoreactive B cells. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: TG2-specific antibodies did not block enzymatic activity and served as substrates for TG2-mediated crosslinking when expressed as IgD or IgM but not as IgA1 or IgG1. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: This could result in preferential recruitment of plasma cells from naive IgD- and IgM-expressing B cells, thus possibly explaining why the antibody response to TG2 bears signs of a primary immune response despite the disease chronicity. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Background  Celiac disease is a small intestinal inflammatory disorder characterized by malabsorption, nutrient deficiency, and a range of clinical manifestations. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: It is caused by an inappropriate immune response to dietary gluten and is treated with a gluten-free diet. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Recent feeding studies have indicated oats to be safe for celiac disease patients, and oats are now often included in the celiac disease diet. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: This study aimed to investigate whether oat intolerance exists in celiac disease and to characterize the cells and processes underlying this intolerance. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Methods and Findings  We selected for study nine adults with celiac disease who had a history of oats exposure. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Four of the patients had clinical symptoms on an oats-containing diet, and three of these four patients had intestinal inflammation typical of celiac disease at the time of oats exposure. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: We established oats-avenin-specific and -reactive intestinal T-cell lines from these three patients, as well as from two other patients who appeared to tolerate oats. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: The avenin-reactive T-cell lines recognized avenin peptides in the context of HLA-DQ2. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: These peptides have sequences rich in proline and glutamine residues closely resembling wheat gluten epitopes. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Deamidation (glutamine→glutamic acid conversion) by tissue transglutaminase was involved in the avenin epitope formation. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Conclusions  We conclude that some celiac disease patients have avenin-reactive mucosal T-cells that can cause mucosal inflammation. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Oat intolerance may be a reason for villous atrophy and inflammation in patients with celiac disease who are eating oats but otherwise are adhering to a strict gluten-free diet. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Clinical follow-up of celiac disease patients eating oats is advisable. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: BACKGROUND & AIMS Celiac disease is characterized by disturbed jejunal crypt-villus axis biology with immunoglobulin (Ig) A deposits underlining the epithelium. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: The aim of this study was to test whether celiac disease serum IgA (reticulin/endomysial autoantibodies) interferes with the mesenchymal-epithelial cell cross-talk. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: METHODS Differentiation of T84 epithelial cells was induced with IMR-90 fibroblasts or transforming growth factor beta in three-dimensional collagen gel cultures. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: The effects of purified celiac IgA and monoclonal tissue transglutaminase antibodies (CUB7402) were studied by adding the antibodies to the cocultures. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: RESULTS Active celiac disease IgA, reactive for tissue transglutaminase, significantly inhibited T84 epithelial cell differentiation (P < 0.001) and increased epithelial cell proliferation (P = 0.024). Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: Similar effects were obtained with antibodies against tissue transglutaminase. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: CONCLUSIONS Celiac disease-associated IgA class antibodies disturb transforming growth factor beta-mediated fibroblast-epithelial cell cross-talk in this in vitro crypt-villus axis model. Relevant:
Query: IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. Document: This primary finding indicates that celiac disease-specific autoantibodies may also contribute to the formation of the gluten-triggered jejunal mucosal lesion in celiac disease. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by a breakdown of tolerance to nuclear antigens and the development of immune complexes. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Genomic approaches have shown that human SLE leukocytes homogeneously express type I interferon (IFN)-induced and neutrophil-related transcripts. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Increased production and/or bioavailability of IFN-α and associated alterations in dendritic cell (DC) homeostasis have been linked to lupus pathogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Although neutrophils have long been shown to be associated with lupus, their potential role in disease pathogenesis remains elusive. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Here, we show that mature SLE neutrophils are primed in vivo by type I IFN and die upon exposure to SLE-derived anti-ribonucleoprotein antibodies, releasing neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: SLE NETs contain DNA as well as large amounts of LL37 and HMGB1, neutrophil proteins that facilitate the uptake and recognition of mammalian DNA by plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs). Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Indeed, SLE NETs activate pDCs to produce high levels of IFN-α in a DNA- and TLR9 (Toll-like receptor 9)-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Our results reveal an unsuspected role for neutrophils in SLE pathogenesis and identify a novel link between nucleic acid-recognizing antibodies and type I IFN production in this disease. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: BACKGROUND Exosomes are extracellular vesicles that mediate cellular communication in health and diseases. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Neutrophils could be polarized to a pro-tumor phenotype by tumor. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: The function of tumor-derived exosomes in neutrophil regulation remains unclear. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: METHODS We investigated the effects of gastric cancer cell-derived exosomes (GC-Ex) on the pro-tumor activation of neutrophils and elucidated the underlying mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: RESULTS GC-Ex prolonged neutrophil survival and induced expression of inflammatory factors in neutrophils. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: GC-Ex-activated neutrophils, in turn, promoted gastric cancer cell migration. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: GC-Ex transported high mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) that activated NF-κB pathway through interaction with TLR4, resulting in an increased autophagic response in neutrophils. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Blocking HMGB1/TLR4 interaction, NF-κB pathway, and autophagy reversed GC-Ex-induced neutrophil activation. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Silencing HMGB1 in gastric cancer cells confirmed HMGB1 as a key factor for GC-Ex-mediated neutrophil activation. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Furthermore, HMGB1 expression was upregulated in gastric cancer tissues. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Increased HMGB1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in patients with gastric cancer. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Finally, gastric cancer tissue-derived exosomes acted similarly as exosomes derived from gastric cancer cell lines in neutrophil activation. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: CONCLUSION We demonstrate that gastric cancer cell-derived exosomes induce autophagy and pro-tumor activation of neutrophils via HMGB1/TLR4/NF-κB signaling, which provides new insights into mechanisms for neutrophil regulation in cancer and sheds lights on the multifaceted role of exosomes in reshaping tumor microenvironment. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Autoantibodies to DNA and histones (chromatin) are the defining antigen specificity in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and related musculoskeletal disorders but the mechanisms responsible for their induction remain mysterious. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: That situation rapidly changed once neutrophil extracellular chromatin traps (NETs) were discovered and observed to play a conserved role in innate immune responses to a broad variety of microbial pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: At the center of an infectious process, neutrophils exert various antimicrobial defenses, including the release of nuclear chromatin into the extracellular space. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: The externalized NETs, a complex meshwork of nuclear chromatin and antimicrobial proteins, serve to immobilize and degrade microbial pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: Here, we critically evaluate the evidence supporting NETs versus apoptotic bodies as a source for nuclear antigens in autoimmunity. Relevant:
Query: Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. Document: We also discuss the possibility that NET chromatin forms an essential component of immune deposits in the pathogenesis of glomerulonephritis in SLE and other autoimmune immune complex diseases. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: PURPOSE OF REVIEW To encapsulate our current understanding of the proinflammatory cytokines responsible for the inflammation underlying Crohn's disease and the prospect of using this information to devise therapy for this condition based on inhibition of these cytokines. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: RECENT FINDINGS Current research is shedding new light on the role of both T helper cell (Th)1 and Th17 responses in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: Initial studies conducted a decade ago highlighted the view that Crohn's disease inflammation is caused by an interleukin-12-driven Th1 response, which resulted in the generation of interferon-gamma, which then served as the main inflammatory mediator. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: In recent years, however, this view has been largely eclipsed by studies, conducted mainly in murine models, showing that a Th17 response is the main cause of Crohn's disease inflammation through the production of interleukin-17. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: Now, a somewhat more balanced view is emerging, which holds that interferon-gamma is still a major proinflammatory cytokine in Crohn's disease, although it may arise from both the Th1 and Th17-mediated responses at different phases of the inflammatory process. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: SUMMARY The new findings continue to support the idea that anti-interleukin-12p40, an antibody that inhibits both the Th1 and Th17 response, is logically the most potent anticytokine for the treatment of Crohn's disease. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: Retinoids (e.g., vitamin A and its derivatives) can regulate immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: The aim of this study was to determine whether all-trans retinaldehyde (retinal), a vitamin A derivative, can inhibit inflammatory responses and joint destruction in DBA/1J mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: The arthritis score and incidence of arthritis were lower in mice treated with retinal compared to those treated with cottonseed oil. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: Histopathologic evidence of joint damage was lower in mice treated with retinal, corresponding with a reduction in the infiltration of immune cells in mice treated with retinal type II collagen (CII)-stimulated spleen cells. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: In addition, the expression of proinflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress proteins, and osteoclast markers were significantly reduced in mice treated with retinal. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: In vitro, retinal induced increased Foxp3 expression and inhibited Th17 development. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: The proportion of Foxp3(+) Treg cells was increased in the spleens of mice treated with retinal, whereas the proportion of Th17 cells was reduced. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: In both mice and a human culture system, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) positive mononuclear cells and multinucleated cells were significantly reduced after treatment with retinal. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: The expression of osteoclast differentiation markers was dramatically decreased upon addition of retinal. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: This is the first study to demonstrate the therapeutic effect of retinal on an autoimmune arthritis model in mice through reciprocal regulation of Th17 and regulatory T cells and protection of differentiation and activation of osteoclasts. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: Taken together, our findings indicate that retinal has profound immunoregulatory functions and potential value for the treatment of autoimmune inflammatory disorders. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: CD4 T cells play critical roles in mediating adaptive immunity to a variety of pathogens. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: They are also involved in autoimmunity, asthma, and allergic responses as well as in tumor immunity. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: During TCR activation in a particular cytokine milieu, naive CD4 T cells may differentiate into one of several lineages of T helper (Th) cells, including Th1, Th2, Th17, and iTreg, as defined by their pattern of cytokine production and function. Relevant:
Query: Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. Document: In this review, we summarize the discovery, functions, and relationships among Th cells; the cytokine and signaling requirements for their development; the networks of transcription factors involved in their differentiation; the epigenetic regulation of their key cytokines and transcription factors; and human diseases involving defective CD4 T cell differentiation. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: It is unclear how the immune response in early life becomes appropriately stimulated to provide protection while also avoiding excessive activation as a result of diverse new antigens. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: T cells are integral to adaptive immunity; mouse studies indicate that tissue localization of T cell subsets is important for both protective immunity and immunoregulation. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: In humans, however, the early development and function of T cells in tissues remain unexplored. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: We present here an analysis of lymphoid and mucosal tissue T cells derived from pediatric organ donors in the first two years of life, as compared to adult organ donors, revealing early compartmentalization of T cell differentiation and regulation. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Whereas adult tissues contain a predominance of memory T cells, in pediatric blood and tissues the main subset consists of naive recent thymic emigrants, with effector memory T cells (T(EM)) found only in the lungs and small intestine. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Additionally, regulatory T (T(reg)) cells comprise a high proportion (30-40%) of CD4(+) T cells in pediatric tissues but are present at much lower frequencies (1-10%) in adult tissues. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Pediatric tissue T(reg) cells suppress endogenous T cell activation, and early T cell functionality is confined to the mucosal sites that have the lowest T(reg):T(EM) cell ratios, which suggests control in situ of immune responses in early life. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: T cells have crucial roles in protection against infection and cancer. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Although the trafficking of memory T cells around the body is integral to their capacity to provide immune protection, studies have shown that specialization of some memory T cells into unique tissue-resident subsets gives the host enhanced regional immunity. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: In recent years, there has been considerable progress in our understanding of tissue-resident T cell development and function, revealing mechanisms for enhanced protective immunity that have the potential to influence rational vaccine design. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: This Review discusses the major advances and the emerging concepts in this field, summarizes what is known about the differentiation and the protective functions of tissue-resident memory T cells in different tissues in the body and highlights key unanswered questions. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Memory/effector T cells efficiently migrate into extralymphoid tissues and sites of infection, providing immunosurveillance and a first line of defense against invading pathogens. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Even though it is a potential means to regulate the size, quality, and duration of a tissue infiltrate, T cell egress from infected tissues is poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Using a mouse model of influenza A virus infection, we found that CD8 effector T cells egressed from the infected lung in a CCR7-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: In contrast, following antigen recognition, effector CD8 T cell egress decreased and CCR7 function was reduced in vivo and in vitro, indicating that the exit of CD8 T cells from infected tissues is tightly regulated. Relevant:
Query: In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. Document: Our data suggest that the regulation of T cell egress is a mechanism to retain antigen-specific effectors at the site of infection to promote viral clearance, while decreasing the numbers of bystander T cells and preventing overt inflammation. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Whereas domestication of livestock, pets, and crops is well documented, it is still unclear to what extent microbes associated with the production of food have also undergone human selection and where the plethora of industrial strains originates from. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Here, we present the genomes and phenomes of 157 industrial Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeasts. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Our analyses reveal that today's industrial yeasts can be divided into five sublineages that are genetically and phenotypically separated from wild strains and originate from only a few ancestors through complex patterns of domestication and local divergence. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Large-scale phenotyping and genome analysis further show strong industry-specific selection for stress tolerance, sugar utilization, and flavor production, while the sexual cycle and other phenotypes related to survival in nature show decay, particularly in beer yeasts. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Together, these results shed light on the origins, evolutionary history, and phenotypic diversity of industrial yeasts and provide a resource for further selection of superior strains. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: PAPERCLIP. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: The unicellular eukaryotic organisms represent the popular model systems to understand aging in eukaryotes. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Candida albicans, a polymorphic fungus, appears to be another distinctive unicellular aging model in addition to the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: The two types of Candida cells, yeast (blastospore) form and hyphal (filamentous) form, have similar replicative lifespan. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Taking the advantage of morphologic changes, we are able to obtain cells of different ages. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Old Candida cells tend to accumulate glycogen and oxidatively damaged proteins. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Deletion of the SIR2 gene causes a decrease of lifespan, while insertion of an extra copy of SIR2 extends lifespan, indicating that like in S. cerevisiae, Sir2 regulates cellular aging in C. albicans. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Interestingly, Sir2 deletion does not result in the accumulation of extra-chromosomal rDNA molecules, but influences the retention of oxidized proteins in mother cells, suggesting that the extra-chromosomal rDNA molecules may not be associated with cellular aging in C. albicans. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: This novel aging model, which allows efficient large-scale isolation of old cells, may facilitate biochemical characterizations and genomics/proteomics studies of cellular aging, and help to verify the aging pathways observed in other organisms including S. cerevisiae. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) protein complexes are key determinants of chromosome conformation. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Using Hi-C and polymer modelling, we study how cohesin and condensin, two deeply conserved SMC complexes, organize chromosomes in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: The canonical role of cohesin is to co-align sister chromatids, while condensin generally compacts mitotic chromosomes. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: We find strikingly different roles for the two complexes in budding yeast mitosis. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: First, cohesin is responsible for compacting mitotic chromosome arms, independently of sister chromatid cohesion. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Polymer simulations demonstrate that this role can be fully accounted for through cis-looping of chromatin. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Second, condensin is generally dispensable for compaction along chromosome arms. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Instead, it plays a targeted role compacting the rDNA proximal regions and promoting resolution of peri-centromeric regions. Relevant:
Query: In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. Document: Our results argue that the conserved mechanism of SMC complexes is to form chromatin loops and that distinct SMC-dependent looping activities are selectively deployed to appropriately compact chromosomes. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Myeloma causes a devastating and unique form of osteolytic bone disease. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Although osteoclast activation is responsible for bone destruction, the precise mechanisms by which myeloma cells increase osteoclast activity have not been defined. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: An animal model of human myeloma bone disease would help in clarification of these mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Multiple myeloma occurs spontaneously in aging C57 BL/KaLwRij mice and has all of the features of the disease in humans, including the characteristic bone lesions. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: The disease can be induced in normal C57 BL/KaLwRij mice by inoculation of fresh marrow-derived cells from mice with myeloma, but this model is difficult to study because of variability in the number of myeloma cells in marrow-derived preparations. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: To develop a better animal model of human myeloma bone disease, we have established and subcloned a cell line from this murine myeloma and found that it causes osteolytic bone lesions in mice characteristic of human myeloma bone disease. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: The cell line produces interleukin-6, but grows independent of exogenous interleukin-6. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Mice inoculated intravenously with the cultured cells predictably develop an identical disease to the mice injected intravenously with fresh bone-marrow-derived myeloma cells, including monoclonal gammopathy and radiologic bone lesions. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: We found that some of the mice became hypercalcemic, and the bone lesions are characterized by increased osteoclast activity. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: We found identical results when we inoculated Nu/Bg/XID mice with cultured murine myeloma cells. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Because we can inoculate mice with precise numbers of cells and predict accurately when the mice will develop bone lesions, become hypercalcemic, and die, this should be a convenient model for determining the mechanisms by which the myeloma cells cause osteoclast activation in this model of human myeloma bone disease. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Understanding local variability in malaria transmission risk is critically important when designing intervention or vaccine trials. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Using a combination of field data, satellite image analysis, and GIS modeling, we developed a high-resolution map of malaria entomological inoculation rates (EIR) in The Gambia, West Africa. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: The analyses are based on the variation in exposure to malaria parasites experienced in 48 villages in 1996 and 21 villages in 1997. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: The entomological inoculation rate (EIR) varied from 0 to 166 infective bites per person per rainy season. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Detailed field surveys identified the major Anopheles gambiae s.l. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: breeding habitats. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: These habitats were mapped by classification of a LANDSAT TM satellite image with an overall accuracy of 85%. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Village EIRs decreased as a power function based on the breeding areas size and proximity. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: We use this relationship and the breeding habitats to map the variation in EIR over the entire 2500-km(2) study area. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: We used a mouse nasal model of herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2) infection to examine the biological properties of HSV-2 wild-type (wt), TK-negative, and replication-defective strains in vivo. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Nasal septa tissue is the major site of wt viral replication post intranasal (i.n.) inoculation. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: The HSV-2 strain 186 syn(+)-1 wt virus caused lethal encephalitis at doses of 10(4) PFU and above per nostril, and at lower doses no neurons in the trigeminal ganglia were positive for the latency-associated transcript, indicating a lack of latent infection. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: The 186DeltaKpn TK-negative mutant virus replicated in nasal septa tissue but showed low-level replication in trigeminal ganglia at only one timepoint. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: In situ hybridization of trigeminal ganglia showed that the number of LAT-positive neurons was proportional to the inoculum dose from 10(3) to 10(6) PFU per nare. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: The replication-defective mutant virus 5BlacZ showed no replication in nasal septa tissue and no persistence of viral DNA at the inoculation site or the trigeminal ganglia. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: Nevertheless, inoculation of 5BlacZ or the double-mutant dl5-29 at distal sites reduced acute replication and latent infection of 186DeltaKpn following intranasal challenge. Relevant:
Query: In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. Document: This infection model provides a biological system to test the properties of HSV-2 strains and shows that replication-defective mutant strains do not persist at sites of inoculation or in sensory ganglia but can induce immune protection that reduces the latent viral load of a challenge virus. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Leukemias and other cancers possess self-renewing stem cells that help to maintain the cancer. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Cancer stem cell eradication is thought to be crucial for successful anticancer therapy. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Using an acute myeloid leukemia (AML) model induced by the leukemia-associated monocytic leukemia zinc finger (MOZ)-TIF2 fusion protein, we show here that AML can be cured by the ablation of leukemia stem cells. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: The MOZ fusion proteins MOZ-TIF2 and MOZ-CBP interacted with the transcription factor PU.1 to stimulate the expression of macrophage colony–stimulating factor receptor (CSF1R, also known as M-CSFR, c-FMS or CD115). Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Studies using PU.1-deficient mice showed that PU.1 is essential for the ability of MOZ-TIF2 to establish and maintain AML stem cells. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Cells expressing high amounts of CSF1R (CSF1Rhigh cells), but not those expressing low amounts of CSF1R (CSF1Rlow cells), showed potent leukemia-initiating activity. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Using transgenic mice expressing a drug-inducible suicide gene controlled by the CSF1R promoter, we cured AML by ablation of CSF1Rhigh cells. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Moreover, induction of AML was suppressed in CSF1R-deficient mice and CSF1R inhibitors slowed the progression of MOZ-TIF2–induced leukemia. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Thus, in this subtype of AML, leukemia stem cells are contained within the CSF1Rhigh cell population, and we suggest that targeting of PU.1-mediated upregulation of CSF1R expression might be a useful therapeutic approach. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) contribute to all aspects of tumor progression. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Use of CSF1R inhibitors to target TAM is therapeutically appealing, but has had very limited anti-tumor effects. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Here, we have identified the mechanism that limited the effect of CSF1R targeted therapy. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: We demonstrated that carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (CAF) are major sources of chemokines that recruit granulocytes to tumors. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: CSF1 produced by tumor cells caused HDAC2-mediated downregulation of granulocyte-specific chemokine expression in CAF, which limited migration of these cells to tumors. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Treatment with CSF1R inhibitors disrupted this crosstalk and triggered a profound increase in granulocyte recruitment to tumors. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Combining CSF1R inhibitor with a CXCR2 antagonist blocked granulocyte infiltration of tumors and showed strong anti-tumor effects. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: At the cellular level, development progresses through successive regulatory states, each characterized by their specific gene expression profile. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: However, the molecular mechanisms regulating first the priming and then maintenance of gene expression within one developmental pathway are essentially unknown. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: The hematopoietic system represents a powerful experimental model to address these questions and here we have focused on a regulatory circuit playing a central role in myelopoiesis: the transcription factor PU.1, its target gene colony-stimulating-factor 1 receptor (Csf1r), and key upstream regulators such as RUNX1. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: We find that during ontogeny, chromatin unfolding precedes the establishment of active histone marks and the formation of stable transcription factor complexes at the Pu.1 locus and we show that chromatin remodeling is mediated by the transient binding of RUNX1 to Pu.1 cis-elements. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: By contrast, chromatin reorganization of Csf1r requires prior expression of PU.1 together with RUNX1 binding. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Once the full hematopoietic program is established, stable transcription factor complexes and active chromatin can be maintained without RUNX1. Relevant:
Query: In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. Document: Our experiments therefore demonstrate how individual transcription factors function in a differentiation stage-specific manner to differentially affect the initiation versus maintenance of a developmental program. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Fucci technology makes possible the distinction between live cells in the G(1) and S/G(2)/M phases by dual-color imaging. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: This technology relies upon ubiquitylation-mediated proteolysis, and transgenic mice expressing Fucci provide a powerful model system with which to study the coordination of the cell cycle and development. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: The mice were initially generated using the CAG promoter; lines expressing the G(1) and S/G(2)/M phase probes that emitted orange (mKO2) and green (mAG) fluorescence, respectively, were separately constructed. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Owing to cell type-biased strength of the CAG promoter as well as the positional effects of random transgenesis, however, we noticed some variability in Fucci expression levels. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: To control more reliably the expression of cell cycle probes, we used different genetic approaches to create two types of reporter mouse lines with Fucci2 and Rosa26 transcriptional machinery. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Fucci2 is a recently developed Fucci derivative, which emits red (mCherry) and green (mVenus) fluorescence and provides better color contrast than Fucci. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: A new transgenic line, R26p-Fucci2, utilizes the Rosa26 promoter and harbors the G(1) and S/G(2)/M phase probes in a single transgene to preserve their co-inheritance. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: In the other R26R-Fucci2 approach, the two probes are incorporated into Rosa26 locus conditionally. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: The Cre-mediated loxP recombination technique thus allows researchers to design cell-type-specific Fucci2 expression. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: By performing time-lapse imaging experiments using R26p-Fucci2 and R26-Fucci2 in which R26R-Fucci2 had undergone germline loxP recombination, we demonstrated the great promise of these mouse reporters for studying cell cycle behavior in vivo. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Cellular cardiomyoplasty is an attractive option for the treatment of severe heart failure. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: It is, however, still unclear and controversial which is the most promising cell source. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Therefore, we investigated and examined the fate and functional impact of bone marrow (BM) cells and embryonic stem cell (ES cell)–derived cardiomyocytes after transplantation into the infarcted mouse heart. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: This proved particularly challenging for the ES cells, as their enrichment into cardiomyocytes and their long-term engraftment and tumorigenicity are still poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: We generated transgenic ES cells expressing puromycin resistance and enhanced green fluorescent protein cassettes under control of a cardiac-specific promoter. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Puromycin selection resulted in a highly purified (>99%) cardiomyocyte population, and the yield of cardiomyocytes increased 6–10-fold because of induction of proliferation on purification. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Long-term engraftment (4–5 months) was observed when co-transplanting selected ES cell–derived cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts into the injured heart of syngeneic mice, and no teratoma formation was found (n = 60). Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Although transplantation of ES cell–derived cardiomyocytes improved heart function, BM cells had no positive effects. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Furthermore, no contribution of BM cells to cardiac, endothelial, or smooth muscle neogenesis was detected. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Hence, our results demonstrate that ES-based cell therapy is a promising approach for the treatment of impaired myocardial function and provides better results than BM-derived cells. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: Taro bacilliform virus (TaBV) is a pararetrovirus of the genus Badnavirus which infects the monocotyledonous plant, taro (Colocasia esculenta). Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: A region of the TaBV genome spanning nucleotides 6,281 to 12 (T1200), including the 3′ end of open reading frame 3 (ORF 3) and the intergenic region to the end of the tRNAmet-binding site, was tested for promoter activity along with four different 5′ deletion fragments (T600, T500, T250 and T100). Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: In transient assays, only the T1200, T600, T500 fragments were shown to have promoter activity in taro leaf, banana suspension cells and tobacco callus. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: When these three promoters were evaluated in stably transformed, in vitro-grown transgenic banana and tobacco plants, all were found to drive near-constitutive expression of either the green fluorescent protein or β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in the stem (or pseudostem), leaves and roots, with strongest expression observed in the vascular tissue. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: In transgenic banana leaves, the T600 promoter directed four-fold greater GUS activity than that of the T1200, T500 and the maize polyubiquitin-1 promoters. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: In transgenic tobacco leaves, the levels of GUS expression directed by the three promoters was between four- and ten-fold lower than that of the double Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Relevant:
Query: In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. Document: These results indicate that the TaBV-derived promoters may be useful for the high-level constitutive expression of transgenes in either monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous species. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: CONTEXT More than 1.5 million US adults use stimulants and other medications labeled for treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: These agents can increase heart rate and blood pressure, raising concerns about their cardiovascular safety. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine whether current use of medications prescribed primarily to treat ADHD is associated with increased risk of serious cardiovascular events in young and middle-aged adults. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Retrospective, population-based cohort study using electronic health care records from 4 study sites (OptumInsight Epidemiology, Tennessee Medicaid, Kaiser Permanente California, and the HMO Research Network), starting in 1986 at 1 site and ending in 2005 at all sites, with additional covariate assessment using 2007 survey data. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Participants were adults aged 25 through 64 years with dispensed prescriptions for methylphenidate, amphetamine, or atomoxetine at baseline. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Each medication user (n = 150,359) was matched to 2 nonusers on study site, birth year, sex, and calendar year (443,198 total users and nonusers). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Serious cardiovascular events, including myocardial infarction (MI), sudden cardiac death (SCD), or stroke, with comparison between current or new users and remote users to account for potential healthy-user bias. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: RESULTS During 806,182 person-years of follow-up (median, 1.3 years per person), 1357 cases of MI, 296 cases of SCD, and 575 cases of stroke occurred. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: There were 107,322 person-years of current use (median, 0.33 years), with a crude incidence per 1000 person-years of 1.34 (95% CI, 1.14-1.57) for MI, 0.30 (95% CI, 0.20-0.42) for SCD, and 0.56 (95% CI, 0.43-0.72) for stroke. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: The multivariable-adjusted rate ratio (RR) of serious cardiovascular events for current use vs nonuse of ADHD medications was 0.83 (95% CI, 0.72-0.96). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Among new users of ADHD medications, the adjusted RR was 0.77 (95% CI, 0.63-0.94). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: The adjusted RR for current use vs remote use was 1.03 (95% CI, 0.86-1.24); for new use vs remote use, the adjusted RR was 1.02 (95% CI, 0.82-1.28); the upper limit of 1.28 corresponds to an additional 0.19 events per 1000 person-years at ages 25-44 years and 0.77 events per 1000 person-years at ages 45-64 years. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: CONCLUSIONS Among young and middle-aged adults, current or new use of ADHD medications, compared with nonuse or remote use, was not associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Apparent protective associations likely represent healthy-user bias. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: BACKGROUND Smoking is the leading preventable cause of illness and premature death worldwide. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Some medications have been proven to help people to quit, with three licensed for this purpose in Europe and the USA: nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), bupropion, and varenicline. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Cytisine (a treatment pharmacologically similar to varenicline) is also licensed for use in Russia and some of the former socialist economy countries. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Other therapies, including nortriptyline, have also been tested for effectiveness. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: OBJECTIVES How do NRT, bupropion and varenicline compare with placebo and with each other in achieving long-term abstinence (six months or longer)? Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: How do the remaining treatments compare with placebo in achieving long-term abstinence? Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: How do the risks of adverse and serious adverse events (SAEs) compare between the treatments, and are there instances where the harms may outweigh the benefits? Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: METHODS The overview is restricted to Cochrane reviews, all of which include randomised trials. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Participants are usually adult smokers, but we exclude reviews of smoking cessation for pregnant women and in particular disease groups or specific settings. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: We cover nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), antidepressants (bupropion and nortriptyline), nicotine receptor partial agonists (varenicline and cytisine), anxiolytics, selective type 1 cannabinoid receptor antagonists (rimonabant), clonidine, lobeline, dianicline, mecamylamine, Nicobrevin, opioid antagonists, nicotine vaccines, and silver acetate. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Our outcome for benefit is continuous or prolonged abstinence at least six months from the start of treatment. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Our outcome for harms is the incidence of serious adverse events associated with each of the treatments. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: We searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) in The Cochrane Library, for any reviews with 'smoking' in the title, abstract or keyword fields. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: The last search was conducted in November 2012. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: We assessed methodological quality using a revised version of the AMSTAR scale. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: For NRT, bupropion and varenicline we conducted network meta-analyses, comparing each with the others and with placebo for benefit, and varenicline and bupropion for risks of serious adverse events. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: MAIN RESULTS We identified 12 treatment-specific reviews. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: The analyses covered 267 studies, involving 101,804 participants. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Both NRT and bupropion were superior to placebo (odds ratios (OR) 1.84; 95% credible interval (CredI) 1.71 to 1.99, and 1.82; 95% CredI 1.60 to 2.06 respectively). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Varenicline increased the odds of quitting compared with placebo (OR 2.88; 95% CredI 2.40 to 3.47). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Head-to-head comparisons between bupropion and NRT showed equal efficacy (OR 0.99; 95% CredI 0.86 to 1.13). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Varenicline was superior to single forms of NRT (OR 1.57; 95% CredI 1.29 to 1.91), and to bupropion (OR 1.59; 95% CredI 1.29 to 1.96). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Varenicline was more effective than nicotine patch (OR 1.51; 95% CredI 1.22 to 1.87), than nicotine gum (OR 1.72; 95% CredI 1.38 to 2.13), and than 'other' NRT (inhaler, spray, tablets, lozenges; OR 1.42; 95% CredI 1.12 to 1.79), but was not more effective than combination NRT (OR 1.06; 95% CredI 0.75 to 1.48). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Combination NRT also outperformed single formulations. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: The four categories of NRT performed similarly against each other, apart from 'other' NRT, which was marginally more effective than NRT gum (OR 1.21; 95% CredI 1.01 to 1.46). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Cytisine (a nicotine receptor partial agonist) returned positive findings (risk ratio (RR) 3.98; 95% CI 2.01 to 7.87), without significant adverse events or SAEs. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Across the 82 included and excluded bupropion trials, our estimate of six seizures in the bupropion arms versus none in the placebo arms was lower than the expected rate (1:1000), at about 1:1500. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: SAE meta-analysis of the bupropion studies demonstrated no excess of neuropsychiatric (RR 0.88; 95% CI 0.31 to 2.50) or cardiovascular events (RR 0.77; 95% CI 0.37 to 1.59). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: SAE meta-analysis of 14 varenicline trials found no difference between the varenicline and placebo arms (RR 1.06; 95% CI 0.72 to 1.55), and subgroup analyses detected no significant excess of neuropsychiatric events (RR 0.53; 95% CI 0.17 to 1.67), or of cardiac events (RR 1.26; 95% CI 0.62 to 2.56). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Nortriptyline increased the chances of quitting (RR 2.03; 95% CI 1.48 to 2.78). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Neither nortriptyline nor bupropion were shown to enhance the effect of NRT compared with NRT alone. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Clonidine increased the chances of quitting (RR 1.63; 95% CI 1.22 to 2.18), but this was offset by a dose-dependent rise in adverse events. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Mecamylamine in combination with NRT may increase the chances of quitting, but the current evidence is inconclusive. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Other treatments failed to demonstrate a benefit compared with placebo. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Nicotine vaccines are not yet licensed for use as an aid to smoking cessation or relapse prevention. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Nicobrevin's UK license is now revoked, and the manufacturers of rimonabant, taranabant and dianicline are no longer supporting the development or testing of these treatments. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS NRT, bupropion, varenicline and cytisine have been shown to improve the chances of quitting. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Combination NRT and varenicline are equally effective as quitting aids. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Nortriptyline also improves the chances of quitting. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: On current evidence, none of the treatments appear to have an incidence of adverse events that would mitigate their use. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Further research is warranted into the safety of varenicline and into cytisine's potential as an effective and affordable treatment, but not into the efficacy and safety of NRT. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: BACKGROUND More than 80% of deaths from cardiovascular disease are estimated to occur in low-income and middle-income countries, but the reasons are unknown. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: METHODS We enrolled 156,424 persons from 628 urban and rural communities in 17 countries (3 high-income, 10 middle-income, and 4 low-income countries) and assessed their cardiovascular risk using the INTERHEART Risk Score, a validated score for quantifying risk-factor burden without the use of laboratory testing (with higher scores indicating greater risk-factor burden). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Participants were followed for incident cardiovascular disease and death for a mean of 4.1 years. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: RESULTS The mean Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: INTERHEART Risk Score was highest in high-income countries, intermediate in middle-income countries, and lowest in low-income countries (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: However, the rates of major cardiovascular events (death from cardiovascular causes, myocardial infarction, stroke, or heart failure) were lower in high-income countries than in middle- and low-income countries (3.99 events per 1000 person-years vs. 5.38 and 6.43 events per 1000 person-years, respectively; P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Case fatality rates were also lowest in high-income countries (6.5%, 15.9%, and 17.3% in high-, middle-, and low-income countries, respectively; P=0.01). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: Urban communities had a higher risk-factor burden than rural communities but lower rates of cardiovascular events (4.83 vs. 6.25 events per 1000 person-years, P<0.001) and case fatality rates (13.52% vs. 17.25%, P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: The use of preventive medications and revascularization procedures was significantly more common in high-income countries than in middle- or low-income countries (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: CONCLUSIONS Although the risk-factor burden was lowest in low-income countries, the rates of major cardiovascular disease and death were substantially higher in low-income countries than in high-income countries. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: The high burden of risk factors in high-income countries may have been mitigated by better control of risk factors and more frequent use of proven pharmacologic therapies and revascularization. Relevant:
Query: In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. Document: (Funded by the Population Health Research Institute and others.). Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: CONTEXT The epidemic of heart failure has yet to be fully investigated, and data on incidence, survival, and sex-specific temporal trends in community-based populations are limited. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: OBJECTIVE To test the hypothesis that the incidence of heart failure has declined and survival after heart failure diagnosis has improved over time but that secular trends have diverged by sex. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Population-based cohort study using the resources of the Rochester Epidemiology Project conducted in Olmsted County, Minnesota. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Patients were 4537 Olmsted County residents (57% women; mean [SD] age, 74 [14] years) with a diagnosis of heart failure between 1979 and 2000. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Framingham criteria and clinical criteria were used to validate the diagnosis   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Incidence of heart failure and survival after heart failure diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: RESULTS The incidence of heart failure was higher among men (378/100 000 persons; 95% confidence interval [CI], 361-395 for men; 289/100 000 persons; 95% CI, 277-300 for women) and did not change over time among men or women. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: After a mean follow-up of 4.2 years (range, 0-23.8 years), 3347 deaths occurred, including 1930 among women and 1417 among men. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Survival after heart failure diagnosis was worse among men than women (relative risk, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.24-1.43) but overall improved over time (5-year age-adjusted survival, 43% in 1979-1984 vs 52% in 1996-2000, P<.001). Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: However, men and younger persons experienced larger survival gains, contrasting with less or no improvement for women and elderly persons. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: CONCLUSION In this community-based cohort, the incidence of heart failure has not declined during 2 decades, but survival after onset of heart failure has increased overall, with less improvement among women and elderly persons. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: OBJECTIVE To describe the efficacy of the Finnish mass screening program for cervical squamous carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, as reflected by changes of incidence and mortality rate. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: METHODS Cervical cancer incidence and mortality data were obtained from the Finnish Cancer Registry. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Data were available from the year 1953, when the registry was established. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: The nationwide mass screening program in Finland was started in the mid-1960s. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: A centralized organization administers this program. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Women age 30-60 years are notified for screening every 5 years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: RESULTS The mean incidence of cervical carcinoma in the early 1960s was 15.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: In 1991, it was only 2.7 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: The mortality rate has decreased in the same proportion since the mass screening program. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: In the early 1960s, the mortality was 6.6 and in 1991 1.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: However, the decrease of the incidence is seen almost exclusively in squamous cell carcinomas. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: The mortality caused by adenocarcinoma has decreased in screened birth cohorts, but the incidence rate has remained the same. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: CONCLUSIONS The Finnish mass screening program has been effective and its continuation is of utmost importance. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: In the future more attention should be given to glandular cell atypias in cervical smears. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Thus, it might be possible to decrease the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: OBJECTIVES - To study the relative and population-attributable risks of hypertension for the development of congestive heart failure (CHF), to assess the time course of progression from hypertension to CHF, and to identify risk factors that contribute to the development of overt heart failure in hypertensive subjects. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: DESIGN - Inception cohort study. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: SETTING - General community. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: PARTICIPANTS - Original Framingham Heart Study and Framingham Offspring Study participants aged 40 to 89 years and free of CHF. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: To reflect more contemporary experience, the starting point of this study was January 1, 1970. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: EXPOSURE MEASURES - Hypertension (blood pressure of at least 140 mm Hg systolic or 90 mm Hg diastolic or current use of medications for treatment of high blood pressure) and other potential CHF risk factors were assessed at periodic clinic examinations. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: OUTCOME MEASURE - The development of CHF. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: RESULTS - A total of 5143 eligible subjects contributed 72422 person-years of observation. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: During up to 20.1 years of follow-up (mean, 14.1 years), there were 392 new cases of heart failure; in 91% (357/392), hypertension antedated the development of heart failure. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Adjusting for age and heart failure risk factors in proportional hazards regression models, the hazard for developing heart failure in hypertensive compared with normotensive subjects was about 2-fold in men and 3-fold in women. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Multivariable analyses revealed that hypertension had a high population-attributable risk for CHF, accounting for 39% of cases in men and 59% in women. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Among hypertensive subjects, myocardial infarction, diabetes, left ventricular hypertrophy, and valvular heart disease were predictive of increased risk for CHF in both sexes. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Survival following the onset of hypertensive CHF was bleak; only 24% of men and 31% of women survived 5 years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: CONCLUSIONS - Hypertension was the most common risk factor for CHF, and it contributed a large proportion of heart failure cases in this population-based sample. Relevant:
Query: Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. Document: Preventive strategies directed toward earlier and more aggressive blood pressure control are likely to offer the greatest promise for reducing the incidence of CHF and its associated mortality. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: OBJECTIVE To describe the efficacy of the Finnish mass screening program for cervical squamous carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, as reflected by changes of incidence and mortality rate. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: METHODS Cervical cancer incidence and mortality data were obtained from the Finnish Cancer Registry. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Data were available from the year 1953, when the registry was established. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: The nationwide mass screening program in Finland was started in the mid-1960s. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: A centralized organization administers this program. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Women age 30-60 years are notified for screening every 5 years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: RESULTS The mean incidence of cervical carcinoma in the early 1960s was 15.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: In 1991, it was only 2.7 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: The mortality rate has decreased in the same proportion since the mass screening program. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: In the early 1960s, the mortality was 6.6 and in 1991 1.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: However, the decrease of the incidence is seen almost exclusively in squamous cell carcinomas. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: The mortality caused by adenocarcinoma has decreased in screened birth cohorts, but the incidence rate has remained the same. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: CONCLUSIONS The Finnish mass screening program has been effective and its continuation is of utmost importance. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: In the future more attention should be given to glandular cell atypias in cervical smears. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Thus, it might be possible to decrease the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: With respect to cervical cancer management, Finland and the Netherlands are comparable in relevant characteristics, e.g., fertility rate, age-of-mother at first birth and a national screening programme for several years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: The aim of this study is to compare trends in incidence of and mortality from cervical cancer in Finland and the Netherlands in relation to the introduction and intensity of the screening programmes. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Therefore, incidence and mortality rates were calculated using the Cancer Registries of Finland and the Netherlands. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Data on screening intensity were obtained from the Finnish Cancer Registry and the Dutch evaluation centre at ErasmusMC-Rotterdam. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Women aged 30-60 have been screened every 5 years, in Finland since 1992 and in the Netherlands since 1996. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Screening protocols for smear taking and referral to the gynaecologist are comparable. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Incidence and mortality rates have declined more in Finland. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: In 2003, age-adjusted incidence and mortality in Finland were 4.0 and 0.9 and in the Netherlands 4.9 and 1.4 per 100,000 woman-years, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Excess smear use in the Netherlands was estimated to be 24 per 1,000 women during a 5-year interval compared to 121 in Finland. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: The decline in mortality in Finland seems to be almost completely related to the screening programme whereas in the Netherlands it was initially considered to be a natural decline. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Differences in risk factors might also play a role: the Netherlands has higher population density and higher percentages of immigrants and (female) smokers. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: The greater excess smear use in Finland might also have affected incidence. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: BACKGROUND Screening for cervical cancer based on testing for human papillomavirus (HPV) increases the sensitivity of detection of high-grade (grade 2 or 3) cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, but whether this gain represents overdiagnosis or protection against future high-grade cervical epithelial neoplasia or cervical cancer is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: METHODS In a population-based screening program in Sweden, 12,527 women 32 to 38 years of age were randomly assigned at a 1:1 ratio to have an HPV test plus a Papanicolaou (Pap) test (intervention group) or a Pap test alone (control group). Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Women with a positive HPV test and a normal Pap test result were offered a second HPV test at least 1 year later, and those who were found to be persistently infected with the same high-risk type of HPV were then offered colposcopy with cervical biopsy. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: A similar number of double-blinded Pap smears and colposcopies with biopsy were performed in randomly selected women in the control group. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Comprehensive registry data were used to follow the women for a mean of 4.1 years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: The relative rates of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer detected at enrollment and at subsequent screening examinations were calculated. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: RESULTS At enrollment, the proportion of women in the intervention group who were found to have lesions of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer was 51% greater (95% confidence interval [CI], 13 to 102) than the proportion of women in the control group who were found to have such lesions. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: At subsequent screening examinations, the proportion of women in the intervention group who were found to have grade 2 or 3 lesions or cancer was 42% less (95% CI, 4 to 64) and the proportion with grade 3 lesions or cancer was 47% less (95% CI, 2 to 71) than the proportions of control women who were found to have such lesions. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: Women with persistent HPV infection remained at high risk for grade 2 or 3 lesions or cancer after referral for colposcopy. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: CONCLUSIONS The addition of an HPV test to the Pap test to screen women in their mid-30s for cervical cancer reduces the incidence of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer detected by subsequent screening examinations. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. Document: (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00479375 [ClinicalTrials.gov].). Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: OBJECTIVE To describe the efficacy of the Finnish mass screening program for cervical squamous carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, as reflected by changes of incidence and mortality rate. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: METHODS Cervical cancer incidence and mortality data were obtained from the Finnish Cancer Registry. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: Data were available from the year 1953, when the registry was established. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: The nationwide mass screening program in Finland was started in the mid-1960s. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: A centralized organization administers this program. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: Women age 30-60 years are notified for screening every 5 years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: RESULTS The mean incidence of cervical carcinoma in the early 1960s was 15.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: In 1991, it was only 2.7 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: The mortality rate has decreased in the same proportion since the mass screening program. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: In the early 1960s, the mortality was 6.6 and in 1991 1.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: However, the decrease of the incidence is seen almost exclusively in squamous cell carcinomas. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: The mortality caused by adenocarcinoma has decreased in screened birth cohorts, but the incidence rate has remained the same. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: CONCLUSIONS The Finnish mass screening program has been effective and its continuation is of utmost importance. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: In the future more attention should be given to glandular cell atypias in cervical smears. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: Thus, it might be possible to decrease the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess the performance and impact of primary human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA screening with cytology triage compared with conventional cytology on cervical cancer and severe pre-cancerous lesions. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: DESIGN Randomised trial. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: SETTING Population based screening programme for cervical cancer in southern Finland in 2003-5. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: PARTICIPANTS 58 076 women, aged 30-60, invited to the routine population based screening programme for cervical cancer. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: INTERVENTIONS Primary HPV DNA test (hybrid capture II) with cytology triage if the result was positive or conventional cytological screening (reference). Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Rate of cervical cancer, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade III, and adenocarcinoma in situ (as a composite outcome referred to as CIN III+) during 2003-7 through record linkage between files from the screening registry and the national cancer registry. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: RESULTS In the HPV and conventional arms there were 95 600 and 95 700 woman years of follow-up and 76 and 53 cases of CIN III+, respectively (of which six and eight were cervical cancers). Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: The relative rate of CIN III+ in the HPV arm versus the conventional arm was 1.44 (95% confidence interval 1.01 to 2.05) among all women invited for screening and 1.77 (1.16 to 2.74) among those who attended. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: Among women with a normal or negative test result, the relative rate of subsequent CIN III+ was 0.28 (0.04 to 1.17). Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: The rate of cervical cancer between arms was 0.75 (0.25 to 2.16) among women invited for screening and 1.98 (0.52 to 9.38) among those who attended. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: CONCLUSIONS When incorporated into a well established organised screening programme, primary HPV screening with cytology triage was more sensitive than conventional cytology in detecting CIN III+ lesions. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: The number of cases of cervical cancer was small, but considering the high probability of progression of CIN III the findings are of importance regarding cancer prevention. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN23885553. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: BACKGROUND Screening for cervical cancer based on testing for human papillomavirus (HPV) increases the sensitivity of detection of high-grade (grade 2 or 3) cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, but whether this gain represents overdiagnosis or protection against future high-grade cervical epithelial neoplasia or cervical cancer is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: METHODS In a population-based screening program in Sweden, 12,527 women 32 to 38 years of age were randomly assigned at a 1:1 ratio to have an HPV test plus a Papanicolaou (Pap) test (intervention group) or a Pap test alone (control group). Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: Women with a positive HPV test and a normal Pap test result were offered a second HPV test at least 1 year later, and those who were found to be persistently infected with the same high-risk type of HPV were then offered colposcopy with cervical biopsy. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: A similar number of double-blinded Pap smears and colposcopies with biopsy were performed in randomly selected women in the control group. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: Comprehensive registry data were used to follow the women for a mean of 4.1 years. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: The relative rates of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer detected at enrollment and at subsequent screening examinations were calculated. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: RESULTS At enrollment, the proportion of women in the intervention group who were found to have lesions of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer was 51% greater (95% confidence interval [CI], 13 to 102) than the proportion of women in the control group who were found to have such lesions. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: At subsequent screening examinations, the proportion of women in the intervention group who were found to have grade 2 or 3 lesions or cancer was 42% less (95% CI, 4 to 64) and the proportion with grade 3 lesions or cancer was 47% less (95% CI, 2 to 71) than the proportions of control women who were found to have such lesions. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: Women with persistent HPV infection remained at high risk for grade 2 or 3 lesions or cancer after referral for colposcopy. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: CONCLUSIONS The addition of an HPV test to the Pap test to screen women in their mid-30s for cervical cancer reduces the incidence of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer detected by subsequent screening examinations. Relevant:
Query: Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. Document: (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00479375 [ClinicalTrials.gov].). Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) mutations are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: LRRK2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to Parkinson's disease, but whether LRRK2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Here we find that LRRK2 containing pathogenic Roc-COR domain mutations (R1441C, Y1699C) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in Drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: In vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αTAT1 prevents association of mutant LRRK2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) restores axonal transport. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: In vivo knockdown of the deacetylases HDAC6 and Sirt2, or administration of TSA rescues both axonal transport and locomotor behavior. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Thus, this study reveals a pathogenic mechanism and a potential intervention for Parkinson's disease. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Plus-end tracking proteins, such as EB1 and the dynein/dynactin complex, regulate microtubule dynamics. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: These proteins are thought to stabilize microtubules by forming a plus-end complex at microtubule growing ends with ill-defined mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Here we report the crystal structure of two plus-end complex components, the carboxy-terminal dimerization domain of EB1 and the microtubule binding (CAP-Gly) domain of the dynactin subunit p150Glued. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Each molecule of the EB1 dimer contains two helices forming a conserved four-helix bundle, while also providing p150Glued binding sites in its flexible tail region. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Combining crystallography, NMR, and mutational analyses, our studies reveal the critical interacting elements of both EB1 and p150Glued, whose mutation alters microtubule polymerization activity. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Moreover, removal of the key flexible tail from EB1 activates microtubule assembly by EB1 alone, suggesting that the flexible tail negatively regulates EB1 activity. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: We, therefore, propose that EB1 possesses an auto-inhibited conformation, which is relieved by p150Glued as an allosteric activator. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Cytoplasmic dynein is a microtubule-based motor protein that is responsible for most intracellular retrograde transports along microtubule filaments. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: The motor domain of dynein contains six tandemly linked AAA (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities) modules, with the first four containing predicted nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites (P1-P4). Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: To dissect the functions of these multiple nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites, we expressed and purified Dictyostelium dynein motor domains in which mutations were introduced to block nucleotide binding at each of the four AAA modules, and then examined their detailed biochemical properties. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: The P1 mutant was trapped in a strong-binding state even in the presence of ATP and lost its motile activity. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: The P3 mutant also showed a high affinity for microtubules in the presence of ATP and lost most of the microtubule-activated ATPase activity, but retained microtubule sliding activity, although the sliding velocity of the mutant was more than 20-fold slower than that of the wild type. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: In contrast, mutation in the P2 or P4 site did not affect the apparent binding affinity of the mutant for microtubules in the presence of ATP, but reduced ATPase and microtubule sliding activities. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: These results indicate that ATP binding and its hydrolysis only at the P1 site are essential for the motor activities of cytoplasmic dynein, and suggest that the other nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites regulate the motor activities. Relevant:
Query: Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. Document: Among them, nucleotide binding at the P3 site is not essential but is critical for microtubule-activated ATPase and motile activities of cytoplasmic dynein. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Angiogenesis, the development of new blood vessel from pre-existing vessels, is a key process in the formation of the granulation tissue during wound healing. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: The appropriate development of new blood vessels, along with their subsequent maturation and differentiation, establishes the foundation for functional wound neovasculature. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: We performed studies in vivo and used a variety of cellular and molecular approaches in vitro to show that insulin stimulates angiogenesis and to elucidate the signalling mechanisms by which this protein stimulates microvessel development. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Mice skin injected with insulin shows longer vessels with more branches, along with increased numbers of associated alpha-smooth muscle actin-expressing cells, suggesting the appropriate differentiation and maturation of the new vessels. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: We also found that insulin stimulates human microvascular endothelial cell migration and tube formation, and that these effects occur independently of VEGF/VEGFR signalling, but are dependent upon the insulin receptor itself. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Downstream signalling pathways involve PI3K, Akt, sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) and Rac1; inhibition of these pathways results in elimination of endothelial cell migration and tube formation and significantly decreases the development of microvessels. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Our findings strongly suggest that insulin is a good candidate for the treatment of ischaemic wounds and other conditions in which blood vessel development is impaired. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Stiffness is a biophysical property of the extracellular matrix that modulates cellular functions, including proliferation, invasion, and differentiation, and it also may affect therapeutic responses. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Therapeutic durability in cancer treatments remains a problem for both chemotherapies and pathway-targeted drugs, but the reasons for this are not well understood. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Tumor progression is accompanied by changes in the biophysical properties of the tissue, and we asked whether matrix rigidity modulated the sensitive versus resistant states in HER2-amplified breast cancer cell responses to the HER2-targeted kinase inhibitor lapatinib. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: The antiproliferative effect of lapatinib was inversely proportional to the elastic modulus of the adhesive substrata. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Down-regulation of the mechanosensitive transcription coactivators YAP and TAZ, either by siRNA or with the small-molecule YAP/TEAD inhibitor verteporfin, eliminated modulus-dependent lapatinib resistance. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Reduction of YAP in vivo in mice also slowed the growth of implanted HER2-amplified tumors, showing a trend of increasing sensitivity to lapatinib as YAP decreased. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Thus we address the role of stiffness in resistance to and efficacy of a HER2 pathway-targeted therapeutic via the mechanotransduction arm of the Hippo pathway. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: In schistosomiasis, chronic parasite egg-induced granuloma formation can lead to tissue destruction and fibrosis, which causes much of the morbidity and mortality associated with this disease. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Here we show the importance of IL-13 in the pathogenesis of schistosomiasis, and demonstrate, perhaps for the first time, the therapeutic efficacy of an IL-13 inhibitor, sIL-13Ralpha2-Fc, in the control of hepatic fibrosis. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: T-helper type 2 (Th2) cytokines dominate the immune response in mice infected with Schistosoma mansoni, yet the specific contributions of IL-13 and IL-4 to the development of fibrosis were not previously investigated. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Our studies demonstrate that both cytokines play redundant roles in granuloma formation, which explains the ability of IL-4-deficient mice to form granulomas around eggs. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: More importantly, however, these studies demonstrate that IL-13 is the dominant Th2-type cytokine regulating fibrosis. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: IL-13 stimulated collagen production in fibroblasts, and procollagen I and procollagen III mRNA expression was decreased in sIL-13Ralpha2-Fc-treated mice. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Moreover, the reduction in fibrosis observed in IL-4-deficient mice was much less pronounced than that in sIL-13Ralpha2-Fc-treated animals. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Fibrosis is a major pathological manifestation of a number of allergic, autoimmune, and infectious diseases. Relevant:
Query: Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. Document: Thus, our findings provide evidence that IL-13 inhibitors may be of general therapeutic benefit in preventing damaging tissue fibrosis resulting from Th2-dominated inflammatory responses. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Vitamin D may play a role in glucose metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: A low vitamin D level has been associated with increased risk of diabetes mellitus, but the association has not been confirmed in Asians. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Our objective was to examine the association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels with insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus in Korean adults based on a large population-based survey. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Cross-sectional analyses were carried out on 5787 Korean adults (2453 men and 3334 women) who were 20 y or older and participated in the Fourth Korea NHANES conducted in 2008. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Diabetes mellitus was defined as fasting plasma glucose ≥7 mmol/L or current use of oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Insulin resistance was estimated by homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI). Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Compared to individuals with a sufficient serum 25(OH)D concentration ≥75 nmol/L, the OR (95% CI) for diabetes mellitus were 1.73 (1.09-2.74), 1.30 (0.91-1.84), and 1.40 (0.99-1.98) for serum 25(OH)D concentrations <25, 25 to <50, and 50 to <75 nmol/L, respectively, after multiple adjustments (P-trend < 0.0001). Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Furthermore, the serum 25(OH)D level was inversely associated with HOMA-IR (β = -0.061; P = 0.001) and positively associated with QUICKI (β = 0.059; P = 0.001) in overweight or obese participants. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: In conclusion, a low serum vitamin D concentration is associated with a high risk of diabetes mellitus in Korean adults and the concentration is inversely associated with insulin resistance in those who are overweight or obese. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: BACKGROUND Inadequate photosynthesis or oral intake of Vitamin D are associated with high incidence rates of colorectal cancer, but the dose-response relationship has not been adequately studied. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: METHODS Dose-response gradients from observational studies of Vitamin D intake and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D were plotted as trend lines. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: The point on each linear trend line corresponding to an odds ratio of 0.50 provided the prediagnostic Vitamin D intake or 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration associated with 50% lower risk compared to <100IU/day Vitamin D or <13ng/ml serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D. Medians of these values were determined. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: RESULTS Overall, individuals with >or=1000IU/day oral Vitamin D (p<0.0001) or >or=33ng/ml (82nmol/l) serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (p<0.01) had 50% lower incidence of colorectal cancer compared to reference values. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: CONCLUSIONS Intake of 1000IU/day of Vitamin D, half the safe upper intake established by the National Academy of Sciences, was associated with 50% lower risk. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D of 33ng/ml, which is known to be safe, also was associated with 50% lower risk. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Prompt public health action is needed to increase intake of Vitamin D(3) to 1000IU/day, and to raise 25-hydroxyvitamin D by encouraging a modest duration of sunlight exposure. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: Recent evidence suggests that vitamin D intakes above current recommendations may be associated with better health outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: However, optimal serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] have not been defined. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: This review summarizes evidence from studies that evaluated thresholds for serum 25(OH)D concentrations in relation to bone mineral density (BMD), lower-extremity function, dental health, and risk of falls, fractures, and colorectal cancer. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: For all endpoints, the most advantageous serum concentrations of 25(OH)D begin at 75 nmol/L (30 ng/mL), and the best are between 90 and 100 nmol/L (36-40 ng/mL). Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: In most persons, these concentrations could not be reached with the currently recommended intakes of 200 and 600 IU vitamin D/d for younger and older adults, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: A comparison of vitamin D intakes with achieved serum concentrations of 25(OH)D for the purpose of estimating optimal intakes led us to suggest that, for bone health in younger adults and all studied outcomes in older adults, an increase in the currently recommended intake of vitamin D is warranted. Relevant:
Query: Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. Document: An intake for all adults of > or =1000 IU (25 microg) [DOSAGE ERROR CORRECTED] vitamin D (cholecalciferol)/d is needed to bring vitamin D concentrations in no less than 50% of the population up to 75 nmol/L. The implications of higher doses for the entire adult population should be addressed in future studies. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Wild-type p53 has recently been shown to repress transcription from several cellular and viral promoters. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Since p53 mutations are the most frequently reported genetic defects in human cancers, it becomes important to study the effects of mutations of p53 on promoter functions. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: We, therefore, have studied the effects of wild-type and mutant human p53 on the human proliferating-cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) promoter and on several viral promoters, including the herpes simplex virus type 1 UL9 promoter, the human cytomegalovirus major immediate-early promoter-enhancer, and the long terminal repeat promoters of Rous sarcoma virus and human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I. HeLa cells were cotransfected with a wild-type or mutant p53 expression vector and a plasmid containing a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene under viral (or cellular) promoter control. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: As expected, expression of the wild-type p53 inhibited promoter function. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Expression of a p53 with a mutation at any one of the four amino acid positions 175, 248, 273, or 281, however, correlated with a significant increase of the PCNA promoter activity (2- to 11-fold). Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: The viral promoters were also activated, although to a somewhat lesser extent. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: We also showed that activation by a mutant p53 requires a minimal promoter containing a lone TATA box. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: A more significant increase (25-fold) in activation occurs when the promoter contains a binding site for the activating transcription factor or cyclic AMP response element-binding protein. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Using Saos-2 cells that do not express p53, we showed that activation by a mutant p53 was a direct enhancement. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: The mutant forms of p53 used in this study are found in various cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: The activation of PCNA by mutant p53s may indicate a way to increase cell proliferation by the mutant p53s. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Thus, our data indicate a possible functional role for the mutants of p53 found in cancer cells in activating several important loci, including PCNA. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) naturally infects non-human primates in Africa. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: To date, 40 SIVs have been described both in natural hosts and in heterologous species. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: These viruses are highly diverse and the majority cluster in 6 relatively equidistant phylogenetic lineages. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: At least 8 SIVs are currently considered as recombinant viruses, based on different clustering patterns in different genomic regions. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Only three types of genomes are known, based on the number of accessory genes: vpr-containing genomes, vpr-vpx containing genomes and vpr-vpu-containing genomes. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: vpx resulted by a duplication of the vpr gene following non-homologous recombination and is characteristic of SIVs infecting the Papionini tribe of monkeys and HIV-2 in humans. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: vpu is characteristic of SIVcpz and HIV-1 and may have originated from a recombination involving SIVs from cercopitecini monkeys. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: SIV seems to be non-pathogenic in the vast majority of natural hosts in spite of a high levels of viral replication. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: This is probably a consequence of virus-host adaptation, in which the incubation period of the disease generally exceeds the life span of the African primate host. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: SIVs also have a high propensity for cross-species transmission. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: In the new host, the outcome may vary from inapparent infection to highly pathogenic, the former being reported for African monkeys, whereas the latter being observed in macaques and humans. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: The high diversity of SIVs was generated by a high mutation rate due to a low fidelity of the reverse-transcriptase and active viral and host cell turnover, host-dependent evolution and recombination. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Cross-species transmission is not rare, however preferential host switching may drive the majority of cross-species transmissions. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Numerous SIVs tested so far are able to grow in vitro on human PBMC, therefore it has been postulated that SIV represents a threat for infection of humans in Central Africa and that AIDS is a zoonosis. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: However, although the simian origin of the two HIV types is broadly acknowledged, there are no data that AIDS is acquired like a zoonosis. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: SIV may undergo adaptation in the new human host in order to emerge in the general population. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: The study of SIV in their natural hosts should provide important clues to the real threat to human populations and also elucidate the mechanisms associated with a long-term persistent viral infection without clinical consequences for the host. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: One hypothesis that couples infection with autoimmune disease is molecular mimicry. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Molecular mimicry is characterized by an immune response to an environmental agent that cross-reacts with a host antigen, resulting in disease. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: This hypothesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetes, lupus and multiple sclerosis (MS). Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: There is limited direct evidence linking causative agents with pathogenic immune reactions in these diseases. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Our study establishes a clear link between viral infection, autoimmunity and neurological disease in humans. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: As a model for molecular mimicry, we studied patients with human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), a disease that can be indistinguishable from MS (refs. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: 5,6,7). Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: HAM/TSP patients develop antibodies to neurons. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: We hypothesized these antibodies would identify a central nervous system (CNS) autoantigen. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Immunoglobulin G isolated from HAM/TSP patients identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonuclear protein-A1 (hnRNP-A1) as the autoantigen. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Antibodies to hnRNP-A1 cross-reacted with HTLV-1-tax, the immune response to which is associated with HAM/TSP (refs. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: 5,9). Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Immunoglobulin G specifically stained human Betz cells, whose axons are preferentially damaged. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: Infusion of autoantibodies in brain sections inhibited neuronal firing, indicative of their pathogenic nature. Relevant:
Query: Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. Document: These data demonstrate the importance of molecular mimicry between an infecting agent and hnRNP-A1 in autoimmune disease of the CNS. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The PI3K signaling pathway regulates cell growth and movement and is heavily mutated in cancer. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: Class I PI3Ks synthesize the lipid messenger PI(3,4,5)P3. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: PI(3,4,5)P3 can be dephosphorylated by 3- or 5-phosphatases, the latter producing PI(3,4)P2. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The PTEN tumor suppressor is thought to function primarily as a PI(3,4,5)P3 3-phosphatase, limiting activation of this pathway. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: Here we show that PTEN also functions as a PI(3,4)P2 3-phosphatase, both in vitro and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: PTEN is a major PI(3,4)P2 phosphatase in Mcf10a cytosol, and loss of PTEN and INPP4B, a known PI(3,4)P2 4-phosphatase, leads to synergistic accumulation of PI(3,4)P2, which correlated with increased invadopodia in epidermal growth factor (EGF)-stimulated cells. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: PTEN deletion increased PI(3,4)P2 levels in a mouse model of prostate cancer, and it inversely correlated with PI(3,4)P2 levels across several EGF-stimulated prostate and breast cancer lines. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: These results point to a role for PI(3,4)P2 in the phenotype caused by loss-of-function mutations or deletions in PTEN. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: We report the cDNA cloning and characterization of a novel human inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase (5-phosphatase) that has substrate specificity unlike previously described members of this large gene family. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: All previously described members hydrolyze water soluble inositol phosphates. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: This enzyme hydrolyzes only lipid substrates, phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The cDNA isolated comprises 3110 base pairs and predicts a protein product of 644 amino acids and M(r) = 70,023. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: We designate this 5-phosphatase as type IV. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: It is a highly basic protein (pI = 8.8) and has the greatest affinity toward phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate of known 5-phosphatases. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The K(m) is 0.65 micrometer, 1/10 that of SHIP (5.95 micrometer), another 5-phosphatase that hydrolyzes phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The activity of 5-phosphatase type IV is sensitive to the presence of detergents in the in vitro assay. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: Thus the enzyme hydrolyzes lipid substrates in the absence of detergents or in the presence of n-octyl beta-glucopyranoside or Triton X-100, but not in the presence of cetyltriethylammonium bromide, the detergent that has been used in other studies of the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: Remarkably SHIP, a 5-phosphatase previously characterized as hydrolyzing only substrates with d-3 phosphates, also readily hydrolyzed phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate in the presence of n-octyl beta-glucopyranoside but not cetyltriethylammonium bromide. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: We used antibodies prepared against a peptide predicted by the cDNA to identify the 5-phosphatase type IV enzyme in human tissues and find that it is highly expressed in the brain as determined by Western blotting. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: We also performed Western blotting of mouse tissues and found high levels of expression in the brain, testes, and heart with lower levels of expression in other tissues. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: mRNA was detected in many tissues and cell lines as determined by Northern blotting. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The formation of inositol phosphates in response to agonists was studied in brain slices, parotid gland fragments and in the insect salivary gland. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The tissues were first incubated with [3H]inositol, which was incorporated into the phosphoinositides. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: All the tissues were found to contain glycerophosphoinositol, inositol 1-phosphate, inositol 1,4-bisphosphate and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, which were identified by using anion-exchange and high-resolution anion-exchange chromatography, high-voltage paper ionophoresis and paper chromatography. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: There was no evidence for the existence of inositol 1:2-cyclic phosphate. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: A simple anion-exchange chromatographic method was developed for separating these inositol phosphates for quantitative analysis. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: Stimulation caused no change in the levels of glycerophosphoinositol in any of the tissues. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The most prominent change concerned inositol 1,4-bisphosphate, which increased enormously in the insect salivary gland and parotid gland after stimulation with 5-hydroxytryptamine and carbachol respectively. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: Carbachol also induced a large increase in the level of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate in the parotid. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: Stimulation of brain slices with carbachol induced modest increase in the bis- and tris-phosphate. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: In all the tissues studied, there was a significant agonist-dependent increase in the level of inositol 1-phosphate. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The latter may be derived from inositol 1,4-bisphosphate, because homogenates of the insect salivary gland contain a bisphosphatase in addition to a trisphosphatase. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: These results suggest that the earliest event in the stimulus-response pathway is the hydrolysis of polyphosphoinositides by a phosphodiesterase to yield inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and inositol 1,4-bisphosphate, which are subsequently hydrolysed to inositol 1-phosphate and inositol. Relevant:
Query: Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. Document: The absence of inositol 1:2-cyclic phosphate could indicate that, at very short times after stimulation, phosphatidylinositol is not catabolized by its specific phosphodiesterase, or that any cyclic derivative liberated is rapidly hydrolysed by inositol 1:2-cyclic phosphate 2-phosphohydrolase. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: BACKGROUND Over the past 20 years the prevalence of child and adolescent mental disorders in high-income countries has not changed despite increased investment in mental health services. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Insufficient contact with mental health services may be a contributing factor; however, it is not known what proportion of children have sufficient contact with health professionals to allow delivery of treatment meeting minimal clinical practice guidelines, or how long children experience symptoms prior to receiving treatment. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: AimsTo investigate the level of mental healthcare received by Australian children from age 4 years to 14 years. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: METHOD Trajectories of mental health symptoms were mapped using the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Health professional attendances and psychotropic medications dispensed were identified from linked national Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) and Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme records. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: RESULTS Four trajectories of mental health symptoms were identified (low, high-decreasing, moderate-increasing and high-increasing). Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Most children with mental health symptoms had few MBS mental health attendances, and only a minority received care meeting study criteria for minimally adequate treatment. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Children in the high-increasing and moderate-increasing trajectories were more likely to access care, yet there was no evidence of improvement in symptoms. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: CONCLUSIONS It is important that children and adolescents with mental health problems receive treatment that meets minimal practice guidelines. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Further research is needed to identify the quality of care currently provided to children with mental health difficulties and how clinicians can be best funded and supported to provide care meeting minimal practice guidelines. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Declaration of interestsNone. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: OBJECTIVE To establish the mental health needs of homeless children and families before and after rehousing. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: DESIGN Cross sectional, longitudinal study. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: SETTING City of Birmingham. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: SUBJECTS 58 rehoused families with 103 children aged 2-16 years and 21 comparison families of low socioeconomic status in stable housing, with 54 children. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Children's mental health problems and level of communication; mothers' mental health problems and social support one year after rehousing. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: RESULTS Mental health problems remained significantly higher in rehoused mothers and their children than in the comparison group (mothers 26% v 5%, P = 0.04; children 39% v 11%, P = 0.0003). Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Homeless mothers continued to have significantly less social support at follow up. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Mothers with a history of abuse and poor social integration were more likely to have children with persistent mental health problems. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: CONCLUSIONS Homeless families have a high level of complex needs that cannot be met by conventional health services and arrangements. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Local strategies for rapid rehousing into permanent accommodation, effective social support and health care for parents and children, and protection from violence and intimidation should be developed and implemented. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: AIMS To describe the characteristics of homeless children and families seen by the mental health outreach service (MHOS), to evaluate the impact of this service on the short term psychosocial functioning of children and parents, and to establish perceptions of, and satisfaction with, the service. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: METHODS Twenty seven children from 23 families who were in receipt of the MHOS and 27 children from 23 families residing in other hostels where no such service was available were studied. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The MHOS was delivered by a clinical nurse specialist with expertise in child mental health, who offered the following interventions: assessment and brief treatment of mental health disorders in children; liaison with agencies; and training of homeless centre staff. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: RESULTS Children in the experimental group had a significantly higher decrease in Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) total scores. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Having received the intervention was the strongest predictor of improvement in SDQ total scores. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: There was no significant impact on parental mental health (General Health Questionnaire) scores. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Homeless families and staff expressed high satisfaction with the MHOS. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: CONCLUSION This MHOS for homeless families is an innovative intervention which meets the complex and multiple needs of a vulnerable population unable to access mainstream mental health services. Relevant:
Query: Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The primary objective of the service was to improve child mental health problems; however, the service developed in a responsive way by meeting social and practical needs of families in addition to its clinical role. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: CONTEXT Insomnia is a common condition in older adults and is associated with a number of adverse medical, social, and psychological consequences. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Previous research has suggested beneficial outcomes of both psychological and pharmacological treatments, but blinded placebo-controlled trials comparing the effects of these treatments are lacking. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine short- and long-term clinical efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and pharmacological treatment in older adults experiencing chronic primary insomnia. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS A randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial of 46 adults (mean age, 60.8 y; 22 women) with chronic primary insomnia conducted between January 2004 and December 2005 in a single Norwegian university-based outpatient clinic for adults and elderly patients. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: INTERVENTION CBT (sleep hygiene, sleep restriction, stimulus control, cognitive therapy, and relaxation; n = 18), sleep medication (7.5-mg zopiclone each night; n = 16), or placebo medication (n = 12). Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: All treatment duration was 6 weeks, and the 2 active treatments were followed up at 6 months. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Ambulant clinical polysomnographic data and sleep diaries were used to determine total wake time, total sleep time, sleep efficiency, and slow-wave sleep (only assessed using polysomnography) on all 3 assessment points. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: RESULTS CBT resulted in improved short- and long-term outcomes compared with zopiclone on 3 out of 4 outcome measures. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: For most outcomes, zopiclone did not differ from placebo. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Participants receiving CBT improved their sleep efficiency from 81.4% at pretreatment to 90.1% at 6-month follow-up compared with a decrease from 82.3% to 81.9% in the zopiclone group. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Participants in the CBT group spent much more time in slow-wave sleep (stages 3 and 4) compared with those in other groups, and spent less time awake during the night. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Total sleep time was similar in all 3 groups; at 6 months, patients receiving CBT had better sleep efficiency using polysomnography than those taking zopiclone. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: CONCLUSION These results suggest that interventions based on CBT are superior to zopiclone treatment both in short- and long-term management of insomnia in older adults. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00295386. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: PURPOSE To assess the efficacy, dose stability, safety, and abuse potential of long-term, nightly benzodiazepine treatment of chronic disorders of disrupted nocturnal sleep. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: PATIENTS AND METHODS During a 12-year period, one author evaluated and treated 170 adult referrals for > or = 6 months with nightly benzodiazepine therapy for longstanding, sleep-disruptive disorders: injurious sleepwalking and sleep terrors (69); rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (52); chronic, severe insomnia (25); and restless legs syndrome/periodic limb movement disorder (24). Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: RESULTS Complete/substantial control of the sleep disorders was achieved by 146 patients (86%); 8% had adverse effects requiring medication changes; 2% had relapses of alcohol or chemical abuse requiring hospitalization; another 2% at times misused their medications. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: A total of 136 patients received clonazepam nightly for a mean 3.5 (+/- Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: 2.4) years, with no significant difference in inital versus final mean dose: 0.77 mg (+/- 0.46) versus 1.10 mg (+/- 0.96). Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Similar results were obtained with chronic alprazolam treatment and with other benzodiazepine treatments. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: CONCLUSION Long-term, nightly benzodiazepine treatment of injurious parasomnias and other disorders of disrupted nocturnal sleep resulted in sustained efficacy in most cases, with low risk of dosage tolerance, adverse effects, or abuse. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Data from this study on the treatment of chronic, severe insomnia (a small subset of all insomnia) are not generalizable to the typical insomnia patient. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: BACKGROUND The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a brief, 4-session cognitive behavioral, group psychotherapy for binge eating among bariatric surgery candidates at an academic medical center. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Binge eating behaviors have been linked to poorer outcomes among bariatric surgery patients, and binge eating disorder have be considered a contraindication in surgery programs, some of which have mandated preoperative binge eating treatment. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: However, no previous studies have examined whether a preoperative binge eating intervention could successfully reduce binge eating behaviors among severely obese bariatric surgery candidates. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: METHODS A total of 243 bariatric surgery candidates completed a brief cognitive behavioral group treatment for binge eating behaviors and were administered the Binge Eating Scale and reported the number of weekly binge eating episodes at the initial psychological evaluation and again after the group sessions. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: The study used a pre-post intervention design. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: RESULTS The results suggested significant reductions in both binge eating behaviors and cognitions and binge eating episodes after the group intervention. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: The intervention's effectiveness did not differ according to gender or ethnicity (black versus white). Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: CONCLUSION A brief cognitive behavioral intervention can reduce binge eating behaviors among bariatric surgery candidates. Relevant:
Query: Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. Document: Given the potential influence of binge eating on outcomes, bariatric surgery programs could benefit by treating binge eating before surgery. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess the risks of amputation, blindness, severe kidney failure, hyperglycaemia, and hypoglycaemia in patients with type 2 diabetes associated with prescribed diabetes drugs, particularly newer agents including gliptins or glitazones (thiazolidinediones). Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: DESIGN Open cohort study in primary care. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: SETTING 1243 practices contributing data to the QResearch database in England. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: PARTICIPANTS 469,688 patients with type 2 diabetes aged 25-84 years between 1 April 2007 and 31 January 2015. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: EXPOSURES Hypoglycaemic agents (glitazones, gliptins, metformin, sulphonylureas, insulin, and other) alone and in combination. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES First recorded diagnoses of amputation, blindness, severe kidney failure, hyperglycaemia, and hypoglycaemia recorded on patients' primary care, mortality, or hospital records. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Cox models estimated hazard ratios for diabetes treatments adjusting for potential confounders. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: RESULTS 21,308 (4.5%) and 32,533 (6.9%) patients received prescriptions for glitazones and gliptins during follow-up, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Compared with non-use, glitazones were associated with a decreased risk of blindness (adjusted hazard ratio 0.71, 95% confidence interval 0.57 to 0.89; rate 14.4 per 10,000 person years of exposure) and an increased risk of hypoglycaemia (1.22, 1.10 to 1.37; 65.1); gliptins were associated with a decreased risk of hypoglycaemia (0.86, 0.77 to 0.96; 45.8). Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Although the numbers of patients prescribed gliptin monotherapy or glitazones monotherapy were relatively low, there were significantly increased risks of severe kidney failure compared with metformin monotherapy (adjusted hazard ratio 2.55, 95% confidence interval 1.13 to 5.74). Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: We found significantly lower risks of hyperglycaemia among patients prescribed dual therapy involving metformin with either gliptins (0.78, 0.62 to 0.97) or glitazones (0.60, 0.45 to 0.80) compared with metformin monotherapy. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Patients prescribed triple therapy with metformin, sulphonylureas, and either gliptins (adjusted hazard ratio 5.07, 95% confidence interval 4.28 to 6.00) or glitazones (6.32, 5.35 to 7.45) had significantly higher risks of hypoglycaemia than those prescribed metformin monotherapy, but these risks were similar to those involving dual therapy with metformin and sulphonylureas (6.03, 5.47 to 6.63). Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Patients prescribed triple therapy with metformin, sulphonylureas, and glitazones had a significantly reduced risk of blindness compared with metformin monotherapy (0.67, 0.48 to 0.94). Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: CONCLUSIONS We have found lower risks of hyperglycaemia among patients prescribed dual therapy involving metformin with either gliptins or glitazones compared with metformin alone. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Compared with metformin monotherapy, triple therapy with metformin, sulphonylureas, and either gliptins or glitazones was associated with an increased risk of hypoglycaemia, which was similar to the risk for dual therapy with metformin and sulphonylureas. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Compared with metformin monotherapy, triple therapy with metformin, sulphonylureas, and glitazones was associated with a reduced risk of blindness. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: These results, while subject to residual confounding, could have implications for the prescribing of hypoglycaemic drugs. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia (IAH) is an acquired complication of insulin therapy, which affects people with type 1 and insulin-treated type 2 diabetes mellitus, whereby the ability to perceive the onset of hypoglycaemia becomes diminished or absent. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Deficiencies of the counter-regulatory hormonal responses to hypoglycaemia usually co-exist. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: The development of IAH and counter-regulatory failure greatly increases the risk of severe hypoglycaemia. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Scoring systems have been developed that can be used in the clinical setting and assist with identification of this group of individuals at risk of severe hypoglycaemia. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: The mainstay of treatment of IAH is the scrupulous avoidance of hypoglycaemia. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Pregnancy in women with different renal diseases has important consequences for the developing fetus and maternal health. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Kidneys and the urinary tract have to adapt to the pregnancy status and therefore suffer significant anatomical, hemodynamic and endocrine changes. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Failure to adapt can aggravate the preexisting maternal disease and can also create suboptimal environment for fetal development and increase the risk of obstetric complications. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Knowledge and correct interpretation of the renal functional tests is necessary for the modern obstetrician, avoiding an incorrect diagnosis for renal disease where only specific renal changes during pregnancy are present, but meanwhile a correct evaluation of the renal function and changes can detect a pathology that can aggravate both the mother’s and the baby’s condition. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Improvement and better understanding of the renal pathophysiology in pregnancy made possible that pregnant woman look forward for a good outcome, including here also the women with renal transplant. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: Nowadays is underlined the concept of multidisciplinary teamwork, a very important concept of modern medicine. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: The obstetrician should consider nephrologists as key players in the team and in our opinion should refer to them the pregnant women for a routine check-up of the renal status in the 2nd or beginning of 3rd trimester by ultrasound, beside the usual blood and urine analysis. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: The nephrologists and urologists should be involved in the management of severe medical conditions, such as preeclampsia, acute and chronic renal failure and never the less in the complex management of dialysis or renal transplant patients. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: In pregnancy it can be encountered several renal diseases, some of them preexisting the pregnancy and other developed or being direct influenced by pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: This chapter will discuss briefly the basic evaluation of renal status in order to present and better understand the acute and chronic renal disorders in pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: The chapter will focus on the most common preexisting diseases in pregnancy such as: chronic glomerulonephritis, secondary glomerular nephropathies, interstitial nephropathies (chronic pyelonephritis, renal tuberculosis), diabetes nephropathy, unique surgical kidney, chronic renal failure. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: From the renal diseases directly influenced by pregnancy it will be discussed: asymptomatic bacteriuria, symptomatic urinary infection, urolithiasis and acute renal failure in pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. Document: It will be presented also the management of dialysis in pregnancy and pregnant women with renal transplant. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: CONTEXT No randomized controlled studies have been conducted to date on the effectiveness of psychological interventions for children with symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) that has resulted from personally witnessing or being personally exposed to violence. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effectiveness of a collaboratively designed school-based intervention for reducing children's symptoms of PTSD and depression that has resulted from exposure to violence. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: DESIGN A randomized controlled trial conducted during the 2001-2002 academic year. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS Sixth-grade students at 2 large middle schools in Los Angeles who reported exposure to violence and had clinical levels of symptoms of PTSD. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: INTERVENTION Students were randomly assigned to a 10-session standardized cognitive-behavioral therapy (the Cognitive-Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in Schools) early intervention group (n = 61) or to a wait-list delayed intervention comparison group (n = 65) conducted by trained school mental health clinicians. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Students were assessed before the intervention and 3 months after the intervention on measures assessing child-reported symptoms of PTSD (Child PTSD Symptom Scale; range, 0-51 points) and depression (Child Depression Inventory; range, 0-52 points), parent-reported psychosocial dysfunction (Pediatric Symptom Checklist; range, 0-70 points), and teacher-reported classroom problems using the Teacher-Child Rating Scale (acting out, shyness/anxiousness, and learning problems; range of subscales, 6-30 points). Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: RESULTS Compared with the wait-list delayed intervention group (no intervention), after 3 months of intervention students who were randomly assigned to the early intervention group had significantly lower scores on symptoms of PTSD (8.9 vs 15.5, adjusted mean difference, - 7.0; 95% confidence interval [CI], - 10.8 to - 3.2), depression (9.4 vs 12.7, adjusted mean difference, - 3.4; 95% CI, - 6.5 to - 0.4), and psychosocial dysfunction (12.5 vs 16.5, adjusted mean difference, - 6.4; 95% CI, -10.4 to -2.3). Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: Adjusted mean differences between the 2 groups at 3 months did not show significant differences for teacher-reported classroom problems in acting out (-1.0; 95% CI, -2.5 to 0.5), shyness/anxiousness (0.1; 95% CI, -1.5 to 1.7), and learning (-1.1, 95% CI, -2.9 to 0.8). Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: At 6 months, after both groups had received the intervention, the differences between the 2 groups were not significantly different for symptoms of PTSD and depression; showed similar ratings for psychosocial function; and teachers did not report significant differences in classroom behaviors. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: CONCLUSION A standardized 10-session cognitive-behavioral group intervention can significantly decrease symptoms of PTSD and depression in students who are exposed to violence and can be effectively delivered on school campuses by trained school-based mental health clinicians. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: It is becoming “a truth universally acknowledged” that the education of undergraduate medical students will be enhanced through the use of computer assisted learning. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: Access to the wide range of online options illustrated in the figure must surely make learning more exciting, effective, and likely to be retained. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: This assumption is potentially but by no means inevitably correct. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: ### Box 1: Why fund computer assisted learning? Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: Computer assisted learning is inevitable —Individual lecturers and departments are already beginning to introduce a wide range of computer based applications, sometimes in a haphazard way. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: Planned and coordinated development is better than indiscriminate expansion  It is convenient and flexible —Courses supported by computer assisted learning applications may require fewer face to face lectures and seminars and place fewer geographical and temporal constraints on staff and students. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: Students at peripheral hospitals or primary care centres may benefit in particular  Unique presentational benefits —Computer presentation is particularly suited to subjects that are visually intensive, detail oriented, and difficult to conceptualise, such as complex biochemical processes or microscopic images.1 Furthermore, “virtual” cases may reduce the need to use animal or human tissue in learning  Personalised learning —Each learner can progress at his or her preferred pace. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: They can repeat, interrupt, and resume at will, which may have particular advantages for weaker students  Economies of scale —Once an application has been set up, the incremental cost of offering it to additional students is relatively small  Competitive advantage —Potential applicants may use the quality of information technology to discriminate between medical schools. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: A “leading edge” virtual campus is likely to attract good students  Achieves the ultimate goal of higher education —The goal is to link people into learning communities. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: Computer applications, especially the internet and world wide web, are an extremely efficient way of doing this2  Expands pedagogical horizons —The most controversial argument for … RETURN TO TEXT Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: Upon the first publication of the fifth iteration of the Functional Annotation of Mammalian Genomes collaborative project, FANTOM5, we gathered a series of primary data and database systems into the FANTOM web resource (http://fantom.gsc.riken.jp) to facilitate researchers to explore transcriptional regulation and cellular states. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: In the course of the collaboration, primary data and analysis results have been expanded, and functionalities of the database systems enhanced. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: We believe that our data and web systems are invaluable resources, and we think the scientific community will benefit for this recent update to deepen their understanding of mammalian cellular organization. Relevant:
Query: Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance Document: We introduce the contents of FANTOM5 here, report recent updates in the web resource and provide future perspectives. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Over the past two decades there have been significant achievements in the control of a handful of important human tropical infections [1]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: These achievements include the substantive reductions in the prevalence and incidence of the so-called neglected diseases such as lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, guinea worm, leprosy, and trachoma (Box 1) [2]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Each of these neglected diseases is a poverty-promoting and often stigmatizing condition occurring primarily in rural areas of low-income countries (Box 2) [3]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: They are ancient afflictions, described in the Bible and other ancient texts, which have burdened humanity for millennia [3]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: But now, as a result of aggressive regional vertical interventions, there is a possibility that some neglected tropical infections could be eventually controlled to the point of elimination in some areas of endemicity [2–8]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: In the case of guinea worm infection, disease eradication might also soon be possible [9]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Box 2. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Common Features of the Neglected Tropical Diseases          Ancient afflictions that have burdened humanity for centuries      Poverty-promoting conditions      Associated with stigma      Rural areas of low-income countries and fragile states      No commercial markets for products that target these diseases      Interventions, when applied, have a history of success Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Immune cells continuously recirculate through lymph vessels en route from peripheral tissues to the blood. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Leuyte trafficking into and within lymph vessels is mediated by an interply with lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs). Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: However, lymphatic vessels are much more than mere conduits for fluid and immune cell transport. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Data accumulating during past several years indicate that LECs support T cell survival, induce tolerance to self-antigens, inhibit exaggerated T cell proliferation during immune response and maintain T cell memory. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Reciprocally, leukocytes impact LEC biology: lymphatic vessel permeability depends on DCs while lymphocytes regulate LEC proliferation during inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Altogether, these novel results provide important insights on intimate connections between LECs and leukocytes that contribute to the understanding of immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Blood and lymphatic vessels pervade almost all body tissues and have numerous essential roles in physiology and disease. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: The inner lining of these networks is formed by a single layer of endothelial cells, which is specialized according to the needs of the tissue that it supplies. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Whereas the general mechanisms of blood and lymphatic vessel development are being defined with increasing molecular precision, studies of the processes of endothelial specialization remain mostly descriptive. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Recent insights from genetic animal models illuminate how endothelial cells interact with each other and with their tissue environment, providing paradigms for vessel type- and organ-specific endothelial differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. Document: Delineating these governing principles will be crucial for understanding how tissues develop and maintain, and how their function becomes abnormal in disease. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Over the past two decades there have been significant achievements in the control of a handful of important human tropical infections [1]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: These achievements include the substantive reductions in the prevalence and incidence of the so-called neglected diseases such as lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, guinea worm, leprosy, and trachoma (Box 1) [2]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Each of these neglected diseases is a poverty-promoting and often stigmatizing condition occurring primarily in rural areas of low-income countries (Box 2) [3]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: They are ancient afflictions, described in the Bible and other ancient texts, which have burdened humanity for millennia [3]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: But now, as a result of aggressive regional vertical interventions, there is a possibility that some neglected tropical infections could be eventually controlled to the point of elimination in some areas of endemicity [2–8]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: In the case of guinea worm infection, disease eradication might also soon be possible [9]. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Box 2. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Common Features of the Neglected Tropical Diseases          Ancient afflictions that have burdened humanity for centuries      Poverty-promoting conditions      Associated with stigma      Rural areas of low-income countries and fragile states      No commercial markets for products that target these diseases      Interventions, when applied, have a history of success Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: BACKGROUND Cancer Stem Cells (CSCs) hypothesis asserts that only a small subset of cells within a tumour is capable of both tumour initiation and sustainment. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: The Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition (EMT) is an embryonic developmental program that is often activated during cancer invasion and metastasis. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: The aim of this study is to shed light on the relationship between EMT and CSCs by using LC31 lung cancer primary cell line. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: MATERIALS AND METHODS A549 and LC31 cell lines were treated with 2 ng/ml TGFβ-1 for 30 days, and 80 days, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: To evaluate EMT, morphological changes were assessed by light microscopy, immunofluorescence and cytometry for following markers: cytokeratins, e-cadherin, CD326 (epithelial markers) and CD90, and vimentin (mesenchymal markers). Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Moreover, RT-PCR for Slug, Twist and β-catenin genes were performed. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: On TGFβ-1 treated and untreated LC31 cell lines, we performed stemness tests such as pneumospheres growth and stem markers expression such as Oct4, Nanog, Sox2, c-kit and CD133. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Western Blot for CD133 and tumorigenicity assays using NOD/SCID mice were performed. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: RESULTS TGFβ-1 treated LC31 cell line lost its epithelial morphology assuming a fibroblast-like appearance. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: The same results were obtained for the A549 cell line (as control). Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Immunofluorescence and cytometry showed up-regulation of vimentin and CD90 and down-regulation of cytocheratin, e-cadherin and CD326 in TGFβ-1 treated LC31 and A549 cell lines. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Slug, Twist and β-catenin m-RNA transcripts were up-regulated in TGFβ-1 treated LC31 cell line confirming EMT. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: This cell line showed also over-expression of Oct4, Nanog, Sox2 and CD133, all genes of stemness. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: In addition, in TGFβ-1 treated LC31 cell line, an increased pneumosphere-forming capacity and tumours-forming ability in NOD/SCID mice were detectable. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: CONCLUSIONS The induction of EMT by TGFβ-1 exposure, in primary lung cancer cell line results in the acquisition of mesenchymal profile and in the expression of stem cell markers. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: IMPORTANCE The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) cholesterol treatment guidelines have wide-scale implications for treating adults without history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) with statins. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: OBJECTIVE To estimate the cost-effectiveness of various 10-year ASCVD risk thresholds that could be used in the ACC/AHA cholesterol treatment guidelines. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Microsimulation model, including lifetime time horizon, US societal perspective, 3% discount rate for costs, and health outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: In the model, hypothetical individuals from a representative US population aged 40 to 75 years received statin treatment, experienced ASCVD events, and died from ASCVD-related or non-ASCVD-related causes based on ASCVD natural history and statin treatment parameters. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Data sources for model parameters included National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, large clinical trials and meta-analyses for statin benefits and treatment, and other published sources. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Estimated ASCVD events prevented and incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: RESULTS In the base-case scenario, the current ASCVD threshold of 7.5% or higher, which was estimated to be associated with 48% of adults treated with statins, had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $37,000/QALY compared with a 10% or higher threshold. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: More lenient ASCVD thresholds of 4.0% or higher (61% of adults treated) and 3.0% or higher (67% of adults treated) had ICERs of $81,000/QALY and $140,000/QALY, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Shifting from a 7.5% or higher ASCVD risk threshold to a 3.0% or higher ASCVD risk threshold was estimated to be associated with an additional 161,560 cardiovascular disease events averted. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: Cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to changes in the disutility associated with taking a pill daily, statin price, and the risk of statin-induced diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, there was a higher than 93% chance that the optimal ASCVD threshold was 5.0% or lower using a cost-effectiveness threshold of $100,000/QALY. Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE In this microsimulation model of US adults aged 45 to 75 years [corrected], the current 10-year ASCVD risk threshold (≥7.5% risk threshold) used in the ACC/AHA cholesterol treatment guidelines has an acceptable cost-effectiveness profile (ICER, $37,000/QALY), but more lenient ASCVD thresholds would be optimal using cost-effectiveness thresholds of $100,000/QALY (≥4.0% risk threshold) or $150,000/QALY (≥3.0% risk threshold). Relevant:
Query: Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. Document: The optimal ASCVD threshold was sensitive to patient preferences for taking a pill daily, changes to statin price, and the risk of statin-induced diabetes. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: BACKGROUND LDL cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Improved understanding of the biological mechanisms that underlie the metabolism and regulation of LDL cholesterol might help to identify novel therapeutic targets. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: We therefore did a genome-wide association study of LDL-cholesterol concentrations. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: METHODS We used genome-wide association data from up to 11,685 participants with measures of circulating LDL-cholesterol concentrations across five studies, including data for 293 461 autosomal single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a minor allele frequency of 5% or more that passed our quality control criteria. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: We also used data from a second genome-wide array in up to 4337 participants from three of these five studies, with data for 290,140 SNPs. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: We did replication studies in two independent populations consisting of up to 4979 participants. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Statistical approaches, including meta-analysis and linkage disequilibrium plots, were used to refine association signals; we analysed pooled data from all seven populations to determine the effect of each SNP on variations in circulating LDL-cholesterol concentrations. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: FINDINGS In our initial scan, we found two SNPs (rs599839 [p=1.7x10(-15)] and rs4970834 [p=3.0x10(-11)]) that showed genome-wide statistical association with LDL cholesterol at chromosomal locus 1p13.3. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: The second genome screen found a third statistically associated SNP at the same locus (rs646776 [p=4.3x10(-9)]). Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Meta-analysis of data from all studies showed an association of SNPs rs599839 (combined p=1.2x10(-33)) and rs646776 (p=4.8x10(-20)) with LDL-cholesterol concentrations. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: SNPs rs599839 and rs646776 both explained around 1% of the variation in circulating LDL-cholesterol concentrations and were associated with about 15% of an SD change in LDL cholesterol per allele, assuming an SD of 1 mmol/L.   INTERPRETATION We found evidence for a novel locus for LDL cholesterol on chromosome 1p13.3. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: These results potentially provide insight into the biological mechanisms that underlie the regulation of LDL cholesterol and might help in the discovery of novel therapeutic targets for cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Lowering low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) is the primary target in the management of dyslipidemia in patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: However, patients who have achieved LDL-C levels below the currently recommended targets may still experience cardiovascular events. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: This may result, in part, from elevated triglyceride (TG) levels and low levels of high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C). Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Low HDL-C and high TG levels are common and are recognized as independent risk factors for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Furthermore, atherogenic dyslipidemia, characterized by low levels of HDL-C, high TG, and small, dense LDL particles, is a typical phenotype of dyslipidemia in subjects with insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Therefore, to reduce further the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), raising HDL-C and lowering TG may be the secondary therapeutic target for patients who achieve LDL-C levels below the currently recommended targets but are still at risk of CHD. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: However, whether increasing HDL-C levels alone reduces CHD has not yet been confirmed in large randomized clinical trials, and whether functional HDL is more important than HDL-C in reducing CHD remains controversial. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Large CHD endpoint trials that include many patients with diabetes are underway to compare combination treatments with statin and niacin, fibrates, or cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitors with statin alone treatments. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: In this review, we discuss the rationale and importance of increasing HDL-C levels with and without lowering TG levels in the treatment and prevention of cardiovascular events. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: The hepatic low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) pathway is essential for clearing circulating LDL cholesterol (LDL-C). Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Whereas the transcriptional regulation of LDLR is well characterized, the post-transcriptional mechanisms that govern LDLR expression are just beginning to emerge. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: Here we develop a high-throughput genome-wide screening assay to systematically identify microRNAs (miRNAs) that regulate LDLR activity in human hepatic cells. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: From this screen we identified and characterized miR-148a as a negative regulator of LDLR expression and activity and defined a sterol regulatory element–binding protein 1 (SREBP1)-mediated pathway through which miR-148a regulates LDL-C uptake. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: In mice, inhibition of miR-148a increased hepatic LDLR expression and decreased plasma LDL-C. Moreover, we found that miR-148a regulates hepatic expression of ATP-binding cassette, subfamily A, member 1 (ABCA1) and circulating high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels in vivo. Relevant:
Query: LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. Document: These studies uncover a role for miR-148a as a key regulator of hepatic LDL-C clearance through direct modulation of LDLR expression and demonstrate the therapeutic potential of inhibiting miR-148a to ameliorate an elevated LDL-C/HDL-C ratio, a prominent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: The differentiation of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis into a dormant spore is among the most well-characterized developmental pathways in biology. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Classical genetic screens performed over the past half century identified scores of factors involved in every step of this morphological process. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: More recently, transcriptional profiling uncovered additional sporulation-induced genes required for successful spore development. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Here, we used transposon-sequencing (Tn-seq) to assess whether there were any sporulation genes left to be discovered. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Our screen identified 133 out of the 148 genes with known sporulation defects. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Surprisingly, we discovered 24 additional genes that had not been previously implicated in spore formation. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: To investigate their functions, we used fluorescence microscopy to survey early, middle, and late stages of differentiation of null mutants from the B. subtilis ordered knockout collection. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: This analysis identified mutants that are delayed in the initiation of sporulation, defective in membrane remodeling, and impaired in spore maturation. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Several mutants had novel sporulation phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: We performed in-depth characterization of two new factors that participate in cell-cell signaling pathways during sporulation. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: One (SpoIIT) functions in the activation of σE in the mother cell; the other (SpoIIIL) is required for σG activity in the forespore. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Our analysis also revealed that as many as 36 sporulation-induced genes with no previously reported mutant phenotypes are required for timely spore maturation. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Finally, we discovered a large set of transposon insertions that trigger premature initiation of sporulation. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Our results highlight the power of Tn-seq for the discovery of new genes and novel pathways in sporulation and, combined with the recently completed null mutant collection, open the door for similar screens in other, less well-characterized processes. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: The Bacillus subtilis clpC operon is regulated by two stress induction pathways relying on either sigmaB or a class III stress induction mechanism acting at a sigmaA-like promoter. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: When the clpC operon was placed under the control of the isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)-inducible Pspac promoter, dramatic repression of the natural clpC promoters fused to a lacZ reporter gene was noticed after IPTG induction. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: This result strongly indicated negative regulation of the clpC operon by one of its gene products. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Indeed, the negative regulator could be identified which is encoded by the first gene of the clpC operon, ctsR, containing a predicted helix-turn-helix DNA-binding motif. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Deletion of ctsR abolished the negative regulation and resulted in high expression of both the clpC operon and the clpP gene under nonstressed conditions. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Nevertheless, a further increase in clpC and clpP mRNA levels was observed after heat shock, even in the absence of sigmaB, suggesting a second induction mechanism at the vegetative promoter. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Two-dimensional gel analysis and mRNA studies showed that the expression of other class III stress genes was at least partially influenced by the ctsR deletion. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Studies with different clpC promoter fragments either fused to the reporter gene bgaB or used in gel mobility shift experiments with the purified CtsR protein revealed a possible target region where the repressor seemed to bind in vivo and in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Our data demonstrate that the CtsR protein acts as a global repressor of the clpC operon, as well as other class III heat shock genes, by preventing unstressed transcription from either the sigmaB- or sigmaA-dependent promoter and might be inactivated or dissociate under inducing stress conditions. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Clp-controlled proteolysis in Bacillus subtilis seems to play a substantial role, particularly under stress conditions. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Calibrated Western blot analyses were used to estimate the approximate numbers of heat-inducible Clp molecules within a single cell. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: According to these numbers, the different Clp ATPases do not seem to compete for the proteolytic subunit ClpP. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments revealed the predicted specific ClpX-ClpP, ClpC-ClpP, and ClpE-ClpP interactions. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: ClpE and ClpX are rapidly degraded in wild-type cells during permanent heat stress but remained almost stable in a clpP mutant, suggesting ClpP-dependent degradation. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: In particular, ClpCP appeared to be involved in the degradation of the short-lived ClpE ATPase, indicating a negative "autoregulatory" circuit for this particular Clp ATPase at the posttranslational level. Relevant:
Query: Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. Document: Analysis of the half-life of stress-inducible clp mRNAs during exponential growth and heat shock revealed precise regulation of the synthesis of each Clp protein at the posttranscriptional level as well to meet the needs of B. subtilis. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: BACKGROUND The heritable haemoglobinopathy alpha(+)-thalassaemia is caused by the reduced synthesis of alpha-globin chains that form part of normal adult haemoglobin (Hb). Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Individuals homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia have microcytosis and an increased erythrocyte count. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity confers considerable protection against severe malaria, including severe malarial anaemia (SMA) (Hb concentration < 50 g/l), but does not influence parasite count. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: We tested the hypothesis that the erythrocyte indices associated with alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity provide a haematological benefit during acute malaria. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Data from children living on the north coast of Papua New Guinea who had participated in a case-control study of the protection afforded by alpha(+)-thalassaemia against severe malaria were reanalysed to assess the genotype-specific reduction in erythrocyte count and Hb levels associated with acute malarial disease. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: We observed a reduction in median erythrocyte count of approximately 1.5 x 10(12)/l in all children with acute falciparum malaria relative to values in community children (p < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: We developed a simple mathematical model of the linear relationship between Hb concentration and erythrocyte count. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: This model predicted that children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia lose less Hb than children of normal genotype for a reduction in erythrocyte count of >1.1 x 10(12)/l as a result of the reduced mean cell Hb in homozygous alpha(+)-thalassaemia. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: In addition, children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia require a 10% greater reduction in erythrocyte count than children of normal genotype (p = 0.02) for Hb concentration to fall to 50 g/l, the cutoff for SMA. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: We estimated that the haematological profile in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia reduces the risk of SMA during acute malaria compared to children of normal genotype (relative risk 0.52; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.24-1.12, p = 0.09). Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: CONCLUSIONS The increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia may contribute substantially to their protection against SMA. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: A lower concentration of Hb per erythrocyte and a larger population of erythrocytes may be a biologically advantageous strategy against the significant reduction in erythrocyte count that occurs during acute infection with the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: This haematological profile may reduce the risk of anaemia by other Plasmodium species, as well as other causes of anaemia. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Other host polymorphisms that induce an increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis may confer a similar advantage. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine the traditional view that unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus are manifestations of autonomic neuropathy. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: DESIGN Perspective assessment of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and detailed assessment of autonomic neuropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes according to the adequacy of their hypoglycaemic counterregulation. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: SETTING One routine diabetic unit in a university teaching hospital. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: PATIENTS 23 Patients aged 21-52 with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (seven with symptoms suggesting autonomic neuropathy, nine with a serious clinical problem with hypoglycaemia, and seven without symptoms of autonomic neuropathy and without problems with hypoglycaemia) and 10 controls with a similar age distribution, without a personal or family history of diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Presence of autonomic neuropathy as assessed with a test of the longest sympathetic fibres (acetylcholine sweatspot test), a pupil test, and a battery of seven cardiovascular autonomic function tests; adequacy of hypoglycaemic glucose counterregulation during a 40 mU/kg/h insulin infusion test; history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia; and response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide during hypoglycaemia, which depends on an intact and responding autonomic innervation of the pancreas. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: RESULTS There was little evidence of autonomic neuropathy in either the 12 diabetic patients with a history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia or the seven patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: By contrast, in all seven patients with clear evidence of autonomic neuropathy there was no history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and in six out of seven there was adequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation were significantly associated (p less than 0.01). Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: The response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide in the diabetic patients with adequate counterregulation but without autonomic neuropathy was not significantly different from that of the controls (change in plasma pancreatic polypeptide 226.8 v 414 pmol/l). Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: The patients with autonomic neuropathy had a negligible plasma pancreatic polypeptide response (3.7 pmol/l), but this response was also blunted in the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation (72.4 pmol/l) compared with that of the controls (p less than 0.05). Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: CONCLUSIONS Unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate glucose counterregulation during hypoglycaemia are related to each other but are not due to autonomic neuropathy. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: The blunted plasma pancreatic polypeptide responses of the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation may reflect diminished autonomic activity consequent upon reduced responsiveness of a central glucoregulatory centre, rather than classical autonomic neuropathy. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: The histologic features of renal osteodystrophy and the prevalence of bone aluminum deposition in children receiving regular dialysis have not been described. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Forty-four pediatric patients undergoing continuous ambulatory (CAPD) or cycling (CCPD) peritoneal dialysis had bone biopsies and deferoxamine (DFO) infusion tests; all were receiving oral calcitriol. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Osteitis fibrosa (OF) was found in 39%, mild lesions (M) in 25%, normal histology (NH) in 16%, aplastic lesions (AP) in 11%, and osteomalacia (OM) in 9%. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Bone surface aluminum (SA) was present by histochemical staining in 10 out of 20 given aluminum-containing phosphate-binding agents and in 0 of 24 treated with calcium carbonate; chi 2 = 15.5, P less than 0.0001. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Serum biochemistries and DFO infusion tests failed to predict bone histology, but plasma aluminum levels were markedly elevated and bone aluminum content was highest in patients with OM. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Bone formation rate (BFR) correlated with serum parathyroid hormone (PTH), r = 0.55, P less than 0.001; BFR was inversely related to bone aluminum content (r = -0.42, P less than 0.01), even in patients with OF (r = -0.66, P less than 0.05). Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: All patients with SA greater than 30% had normal or reduced BFR when compared to those with SA less than 30%; chi 2 = 12.2, P less than 0.005. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Based on SA greater than 30%, six patients were classified as aluminum-related bone disease: three OM, one AP, and two NH. Relevant:
Query: Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. Document: Two-thirds of pediatric patients undergoing CAPD/CCPD have persistent hyperparathyroidism despite treatment with calcitriol, but aluminum can adversely affect BFR when SA exceeds 30% regardless of histologic lesion or serum PTH level. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: How individual cells respond to mechanical forces is of considerable interest to biologists as force affects many aspects of cell behaviour. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: The application of force on integrins triggers cytoskeletal rearrangements and growth of the associated adhesion complex, resulting in increased cellular stiffness, also known as reinforcement. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Although RhoA has been shown to play a role during reinforcement, the molecular mechanisms that regulate its activity are unknown. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: By combining biochemical and biophysical approaches, we identified two guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), LARG and GEF-H1, as key molecules that regulate the cellular adaptation to force. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: We show that stimulation of integrins with tensional force triggers activation of these two GEFs and their recruitment to adhesion complexes. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Surprisingly, activation of LARG and GEF-H1 involves distinct signalling pathways. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Our results reveal that LARG is activated by the Src family tyrosine kinase Fyn, whereas GEF-H1 catalytic activity is enhanced by ERK downstream of a signalling cascade that includes FAK and Ras. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Synapses are specialized cell-cell contacts that mediate communication between neurons. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Most excitatory synapses in the brain are housed on dendritic spines, small actin-rich protrusions extending from dendrites. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: During development and in response to environmental stimuli, spines undergo marked changes in shape and number thought to underlie processes like learning and memory. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Improper spine development, in contrast, likely impedes information processing in the brain, since spine abnormalities are associated with numerous brain disorders. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Elucidating the mechanisms that regulate the formation and plasticity of spines and their resident synapses is therefore crucial to our understanding of cognition and disease. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Rho-family GTPases, key regulators of the actin cytoskeleton, play essential roles in orchestrating the development and remodeling of spines and synapses. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Precise spatio-temporal regulation of Rho GTPase activity is critical for their function, since aberrant Rho GTPase signaling can cause spine and synapse defects as well as cognitive impairments. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Rho GTPases are activated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and inhibited by GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: We propose that Rho-family GEFs and GAPs provide the spatiotemporal regulation and signaling specificity necessary for proper Rho GTPase function based on the following features they possess: (i) existence of multiple GEFs and GAPs per Rho GTPase, (ii) developmentally regulated expression, (iii) discrete localization, (iv) ability to bind to and organize specific signaling networks, and (v) tightly regulated activity, perhaps involving GEF/GAP interactions. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Recent studies describe several Rho-family GEFs and GAPs that uniquely contribute to spinogenesis and synaptogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Here, we highlight several of these proteins and discuss how they occupy distinct biochemical niches critical for synaptic development. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Certain bacterial adhesins appear to promote a pathogen's extracellular lifestyle rather than its entry into host cells. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: However, little is known about the stimuli elicited upon such pathogen host-cell interactions. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Here, we report that type IV pili (Tfp)-producing Neisseria gonorrhoeae (P(+)GC) induces an immediate recruitment of caveolin-1 (Cav1) in the host cell, which subsequently prevents bacterial internalization by triggering cytoskeletal rearrangements via downstream phosphotyrosine signaling. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: A broad and unbiased analysis of potential interaction partners for tyrosine-phosphorylated Cav1 revealed a direct interaction with the Rho-family guanine nucleotide exchange factor Vav2. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Both Vav2 and its substrate, the small GTPase RhoA, were found to play a direct role in the Cav1-mediated prevention of bacterial uptake. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Our findings, which have been extended to enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, highlight how Tfp-producing bacteria avoid host cell uptake. Relevant:
Query: Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. Document: Further, our data establish a mechanistic link between Cav1 phosphorylation and pathogen-induced cytoskeleton reorganization and advance our understanding of caveolin function. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: OBJECTIVE The effects of hydroxyethyl starch on bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass were determined. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: METHODS A meta-analysis was performed of postoperative blood loss in randomized clinical trials of hydroxyethyl starch versus albumin for fluid management in adult cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Impacts of hydroxyethyl starch molecular weight and molar substitution were assessed. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Randomized trials directly comparing different hydroxyethyl starch solutions were also included. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: RESULTS Eighteen trials with 970 total patients were included. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Compared with albumin, hydroxyethyl starch increased postoperative blood loss by 33.3% of a pooled SD (95% confidence interval, 18.2%-48.3%; P < .001). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Risk of reoperation for bleeding was more than doubled by hydroxyethyl starch (relative risk, 2.24; 95% confidence interval, 1.14-4.40; P = .020). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Hydroxyethyl starch increased transfusion of red blood cells by 28.4% of a pooled SD (95% confidence interval, 12.2%-44.6%; P < .001), of fresh-frozen plasma by 30.6% (95% confidence interval, 8.0%-53.1%; P = .008), and of platelets by 29.8% (95% confidence interval, 3.4%-56.2%; P = .027). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: None of these effects differed significantly between hydroxyethyl starch 450/0.7 and 200/0.5. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Insufficient data were available for hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 versus albumin; however, no significant differences were detected in head-to-head comparisons of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 with 200/0.5. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Albumin improved hemodynamics. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: There were no differences in fluid balance, ventilator time, intensive care unit stay, or mortality. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: CONCLUSIONS Hydroxyethyl starch increased blood loss, reoperation for bleeding, and blood product transfusion after cardiopulmonary bypass. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: There was no evidence that these risks could be mitigated by lower molecular weight and substitution. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: CONTEXT A number of countries have implemented a policy of universal leukoreduction of their blood supply, but the potential role of leukoreduction in decreasing postoperative mortality and infection is unclear. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate clinical outcomes following adoption of a national universal prestorage leukoreduction program for blood transfusions. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION Retrospective before-and-after cohort study conducted from August 1998 to August 2000 in 23 academic and community hospitals throughout Canada, enrolling 14 786 patients who received red blood cell transfusions following cardiac surgery or repair of hip fracture, or who required intensive care following a surgical intervention or multiple trauma. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: INTERVENTION Universal prestorage leukoreduction program introduced by 2 Canadian blood agencies. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: A total of 6982 patients were enrolled during the control period and 7804 patients were enrolled following prestorage leukoreduction. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES All-cause in-hospital mortality and serious nosocomial infections (pneumonia, bacteremia, septic shock, all surgical site infections) occurring after first transfusion and at least 2 days after index procedure or intensive care unit admission. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Secondary outcomes included rates of posttransfusion fever and antibiotic use. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: RESULTS Unadjusted in-hospital mortality rates were significantly lower following the introduction of leukoreduction compared with the control period (6.19% vs 7.03%, respectively; P =.04). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Compared with the control period, the adjusted odds of death following leukoreduction were reduced (odds ratio [OR], 0.87; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.75-0.99), but serious nosocomial infections did not decrease (adjusted OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.87-1.09). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: The frequency of posttransfusion fevers decreased significantly following leukoreduction (adjusted OR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.79-0.94), as did antibiotic use (adjusted OR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.82-0.99). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: CONCLUSION A national universal leukoreduction program is potentially associated with decreased mortality as well as decreased fever episodes and antibiotic use after red blood cell transfusion in high-risk patients. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: BACKGROUND The occurrence of transfusion transmissions of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) cases has reawakened attention to the possible similar risk posed by other forms of CJD. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS CJD with a definite or probable diagnosis (sporadic CJD, n = 741; genetic CJD, n = 175) and no-CJD patients with definite alternative diagnosis (n = 482) with available blood transfusion history were included in the study. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: The risk of exposure to blood transfusion occurring more than 10 years before disease onset and for some possible confounding factors was evaluated by calculating crude odds ratios (ORs). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Variables with significant ORs in univariate analyses were included in multivariate logistic regression analyses. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: RESULTS In the univariate model, blood transfusion occurring more than 10 years before clinical onset is 4.1-fold more frequent in sporadic CJD than in other neurologic disorders. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: This significance is lost when the 10-year lag time was not considered. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Multivariate analyses show that the risk of developing sporadic CJD after transfusion increases (OR, 5.05) after adjusting for possible confounding factors. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Analysis conducted on patients with genetic CJD did not reveal any significant risk factor associated with transfusion. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: CONCLUSION This is the first case-control study showing a significant risk of transfusion occurring more than 10 years before clinical onset in sporadic CJD patients. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: It remains questionable whether the significance of these data is biologically plausible or the consequence of biases in the design of the study, but they counterbalance previous epidemiologic negative reports that might have overestimated the assessment of blood safety in sporadic CJD. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: CONTEXT A number of countries have implemented a policy of universal leukoreduction of their blood supply, but the potential role of leukoreduction in decreasing postoperative mortality and infection is unclear. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate clinical outcomes following adoption of a national universal prestorage leukoreduction program for blood transfusions. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION Retrospective before-and-after cohort study conducted from August 1998 to August 2000 in 23 academic and community hospitals throughout Canada, enrolling 14 786 patients who received red blood cell transfusions following cardiac surgery or repair of hip fracture, or who required intensive care following a surgical intervention or multiple trauma. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: INTERVENTION Universal prestorage leukoreduction program introduced by 2 Canadian blood agencies. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: A total of 6982 patients were enrolled during the control period and 7804 patients were enrolled following prestorage leukoreduction. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES All-cause in-hospital mortality and serious nosocomial infections (pneumonia, bacteremia, septic shock, all surgical site infections) occurring after first transfusion and at least 2 days after index procedure or intensive care unit admission. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Secondary outcomes included rates of posttransfusion fever and antibiotic use. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: RESULTS Unadjusted in-hospital mortality rates were significantly lower following the introduction of leukoreduction compared with the control period (6.19% vs 7.03%, respectively; P =.04). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Compared with the control period, the adjusted odds of death following leukoreduction were reduced (odds ratio [OR], 0.87; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.75-0.99), but serious nosocomial infections did not decrease (adjusted OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.87-1.09). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: The frequency of posttransfusion fevers decreased significantly following leukoreduction (adjusted OR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.79-0.94), as did antibiotic use (adjusted OR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.82-0.99). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: CONCLUSION A national universal leukoreduction program is potentially associated with decreased mortality as well as decreased fever episodes and antibiotic use after red blood cell transfusion in high-risk patients. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: OBJECTIVE The effects of hydroxyethyl starch on bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass were determined. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: METHODS A meta-analysis was performed of postoperative blood loss in randomized clinical trials of hydroxyethyl starch versus albumin for fluid management in adult cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Impacts of hydroxyethyl starch molecular weight and molar substitution were assessed. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Randomized trials directly comparing different hydroxyethyl starch solutions were also included. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: RESULTS Eighteen trials with 970 total patients were included. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Compared with albumin, hydroxyethyl starch increased postoperative blood loss by 33.3% of a pooled SD (95% confidence interval, 18.2%-48.3%; P < .001). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Risk of reoperation for bleeding was more than doubled by hydroxyethyl starch (relative risk, 2.24; 95% confidence interval, 1.14-4.40; P = .020). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Hydroxyethyl starch increased transfusion of red blood cells by 28.4% of a pooled SD (95% confidence interval, 12.2%-44.6%; P < .001), of fresh-frozen plasma by 30.6% (95% confidence interval, 8.0%-53.1%; P = .008), and of platelets by 29.8% (95% confidence interval, 3.4%-56.2%; P = .027). Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: None of these effects differed significantly between hydroxyethyl starch 450/0.7 and 200/0.5. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Insufficient data were available for hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 versus albumin; however, no significant differences were detected in head-to-head comparisons of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 with 200/0.5. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Albumin improved hemodynamics. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: There were no differences in fluid balance, ventilator time, intensive care unit stay, or mortality. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: CONCLUSIONS Hydroxyethyl starch increased blood loss, reoperation for bleeding, and blood product transfusion after cardiopulmonary bypass. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: There was no evidence that these risks could be mitigated by lower molecular weight and substitution. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: The risk of HCV transmission by blood and blood products has been greatly reduced since the early 1980's. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Selection of non-remunerated donors, donor selection to prevent HIV transmission, initial surrogate testing in some regions, and introduction of anti-HCV testing have all contributed to this. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: ALT surrogate testing has become obsolete since the introduction of anti-HCV testing. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: The residual risk of HCV transmission due to donations in the anti-HCV window period at present is about 1 in 100 000 transfusions of cellular products, and transmission of HCV by plasma products treated with modern inactivation methods such as solvent-detergent treatment, has not been reported. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Hemovigilance programmes, which are presently being installed, will provide more data on the safety of blood transfusion. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Introduction of HCV nucleic amplification technology (NAT) as a quality control of manufacturing pools for plasma products or as a form of blood donor screening by minipools is anticipated in many European countries for the coming year. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: Given industrial developments, NAT testing of individual blood donations may become available within the next 2 years. Relevant:
Query: Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. Document: HCV NAT testing will further annihilate the residual risk, and the cost-effectiveness will become relatively low in comparison with other public health measures. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Plants, compared to animals, exhibit an amazing adaptability and plasticity in their development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: This is largely dependent on the ability of plants to form new organs, such as lateral roots, leaves, and flowers during postembryonic development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Organ primordia develop from founder cell populations into organs by coordinated cell division and differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Here, we show that organ formation in Arabidopsis involves dynamic gradients of the signaling molecule auxin with maxima at the primordia tips. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: These gradients are mediated by cellular efflux requiring asymmetrically localized PIN proteins, which represent a functionally redundant network for auxin distribution in both aerial and underground organs. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: PIN1 polar localization undergoes a dynamic rearrangement, which correlates with establishment of auxin gradients and primordium development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Our results suggest that PIN-dependent, local auxin gradients represent a common module for formation of all plant organs, regardless of their mature morphology or developmental origin. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Dynamically polarized membrane proteins define different cell boundaries and have an important role in intercellular communication—a vital feature of multicellular development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Efflux carriers for the signalling molecule auxin from the PIN family are landmarks of cell polarity in plants and have a crucial involvement in auxin distribution-dependent development including embryo patterning, organogenesis and tropisms. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Polar PIN localization determines the direction of intercellular auxin flow, yet the mechanisms generating PIN polarity remain unclear. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Here we identify an endocytosis-dependent mechanism of PIN polarity generation and analyse its developmental implications. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Real-time PIN tracking showed that after synthesis, PINs are initially delivered to the plasma membrane in a non-polar manner and their polarity is established by subsequent endocytic recycling. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Interference with PIN endocytosis either by auxin or by manipulation of the Arabidopsis Rab5 GTPase pathway prevents PIN polarization. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Failure of PIN polarization transiently alters asymmetric auxin distribution during embryogenesis and increases the local auxin response in apical embryo regions. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: This results in ectopic expression of auxin pathway-associated root-forming master regulators in embryonic leaves and promotes homeotic transformation of leaves to roots. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Our results indicate a two-step mechanism for the generation of PIN polar localization and the essential role of endocytosis in this process. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: It also highlights the link between endocytosis-dependent polarity of individual cells and auxin distribution-dependent cell fate establishment for multicellular patterning. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: The Arabidopsis genome contains a family of v-SNAREs: VTI11, VTI12, and VTI13. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Only VTI11 and VTI12 are expressed at appreciable levels. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Although these two proteins are 60% identical, they complement different transport pathways when expressed in the yeast vti1 mutant. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: VTI11 was identified recently as the mutated gene in the shoot gravitropic mutant zig. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: Here, we show that the vti11 zig mutant has defects in vascular patterning and auxin transport. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: An Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant, vti12, had a normal phenotype under nutrient-rich growth conditions. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: However, under nutrient-poor conditions, vti12 showed an accelerated senescence phenotype, suggesting that VTI12 may play a role in the plant autophagy pathway. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: VTI11 and VTI12 also were able to substitute for each other in their respective SNARE complexes, and a double-mutant cross between zig and vti12 was embryo lethal. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a Document: These results suggest that some VTI1 protein was necessary for plant viability and that the two proteins were partially functionally redundant. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Plants, compared to animals, exhibit an amazing adaptability and plasticity in their development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: This is largely dependent on the ability of plants to form new organs, such as lateral roots, leaves, and flowers during postembryonic development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Organ primordia develop from founder cell populations into organs by coordinated cell division and differentiation. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Here, we show that organ formation in Arabidopsis involves dynamic gradients of the signaling molecule auxin with maxima at the primordia tips. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: These gradients are mediated by cellular efflux requiring asymmetrically localized PIN proteins, which represent a functionally redundant network for auxin distribution in both aerial and underground organs. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: PIN1 polar localization undergoes a dynamic rearrangement, which correlates with establishment of auxin gradients and primordium development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Our results suggest that PIN-dependent, local auxin gradients represent a common module for formation of all plant organs, regardless of their mature morphology or developmental origin. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Plants and some animals have a profound capacity to regenerate organs from adult tissues. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Molecular mechanisms for regeneration have, however, been largely unexplored. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Here we investigate a local regeneration response in Arabidopsis roots. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Laser-induced wounding disrupts the flow of auxin-a cell-fate-instructive plant hormone-in root tips, and we demonstrate that resulting cell-fate changes require the PLETHORA, SHORTROOT, and SCARECROW transcription factors. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: These transcription factors regulate the expression and polar position of PIN auxin efflux-facilitating membrane proteins to reconstitute auxin transport in renewed root tips. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Thus, a regeneration mechanism using embryonic root stem-cell patterning factors first responds to and subsequently stabilizes a new hormone distribution. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Dynamically polarized membrane proteins define different cell boundaries and have an important role in intercellular communication—a vital feature of multicellular development. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Efflux carriers for the signalling molecule auxin from the PIN family are landmarks of cell polarity in plants and have a crucial involvement in auxin distribution-dependent development including embryo patterning, organogenesis and tropisms. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Polar PIN localization determines the direction of intercellular auxin flow, yet the mechanisms generating PIN polarity remain unclear. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Here we identify an endocytosis-dependent mechanism of PIN polarity generation and analyse its developmental implications. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Real-time PIN tracking showed that after synthesis, PINs are initially delivered to the plasma membrane in a non-polar manner and their polarity is established by subsequent endocytic recycling. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Interference with PIN endocytosis either by auxin or by manipulation of the Arabidopsis Rab5 GTPase pathway prevents PIN polarization. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Failure of PIN polarization transiently alters asymmetric auxin distribution during embryogenesis and increases the local auxin response in apical embryo regions. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: This results in ectopic expression of auxin pathway-associated root-forming master regulators in embryonic leaves and promotes homeotic transformation of leaves to roots. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: Our results indicate a two-step mechanism for the generation of PIN polar localization and the essential role of endocytosis in this process. Relevant:
Query: Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a Document: It also highlights the link between endocytosis-dependent polarity of individual cells and auxin distribution-dependent cell fate establishment for multicellular patterning. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: L3mbtl2 has been implicated in transcriptional repression and chromatin compaction but its biological function has not been defined. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Here we show that disruption of L3mbtl2 results in embryonic lethality with failure of gastrulation. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: This correlates with compromised proliferation and abnormal differentiation of L3mbtl2(-/-) embryonic stem (ES) cells. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: L3mbtl2 regulates genes by recruiting a Polycomb Repressive Complex1 (PRC1)-related complex, resembling the previously described E2F6-complex, and including G9A, Hdac1, and Ring1b. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: The presence of L3mbtl2 at target genes is associated with H3K9 dimethylation, low histone acetylation, and H2AK119 ubiquitination, but the latter is neither dependent on L3mbtl2 nor sufficient for repression. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Genome-wide studies revealed that the L3mbtl2-dependent complex predominantly regulates genes not bound by canonical PRC1 and PRC2. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: However, some developmental regulators are repressed by the combined activity of all three complexes. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Together, we have uncovered a highly selective, essential role for an atypical PRC1-family complex in ES cells and early development. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Sp1-like proteins are characterized by three conserved C-terminal zinc finger motifs that bind GC-rich sequences found in promoters of numerous genes essential for mammalian cell homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: These proteins behave as transcriptional activators or repressors. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Although significant information has been reported on the molecular mechanisms by which Sp1-like activators function, relatively little is known about mechanisms for repressor proteins. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Here we report the functional characterization of BTEB3, a ubiquitously expressed Sp1-like transcriptional repressor. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: GAL4 assays show that the N terminus of BTEB3 contains regions that can act as direct repressor domains. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Immunoprecipitation assays reveal that BTEB3 interacts with the co-repressor mSin3A and the histone deacetylase protein HDAC-1. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Gel shift assays demonstrate that BTEB3 specifically binds the BTE site, a well characterized GC-rich DNA element, with an affinity similar to that of Sp1. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Reporter and gel shift assays in Chinese hamster ovary cells show that BTEB3 can also mediate repression by competing with Sp1 for BTE binding. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Thus, the characterization of this protein expands the repertoire of BTEB-like members of the Sp1 family involved in transcriptional repression. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: Furthermore, our results suggest a mechanism of repression for BTEB3 involving direct repression by the N terminus via interaction with mSin3A and HDAC-1 and competition with Sp1 via the DNA-binding domain. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: The canonical role of messenger RNA (mRNA) is to deliver protein-coding information to sites of protein synthesis. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: However, given that microRNAs bind to RNAs, we hypothesized that RNAs could possess a regulatory role that relies on their ability to compete for microRNA binding, independently of their protein-coding function. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: As a model for the protein-coding-independent role of RNAs, we describe the functional relationship between the mRNAs produced by the PTEN tumour suppressor gene and its pseudogene PTENP1 and the critical consequences of this interaction. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: We find that PTENP1 is biologically active as it can regulate cellular levels of PTEN and exert a growth-suppressive role. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: We also show that the PTENP1 locus is selectively lost in human cancer. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: We extended our analysis to other cancer-related genes that possess pseudogenes, such as oncogenic KRAS. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: We also demonstrate that the transcripts of protein-coding genes such as PTEN are biologically active. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. Document: These findings attribute a novel biological role to expressed pseudogenes, as they can regulate coding gene expression, and reveal a non-coding function for mRNAs. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: The canonical role of messenger RNA (mRNA) is to deliver protein-coding information to sites of protein synthesis. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: However, given that microRNAs bind to RNAs, we hypothesized that RNAs could possess a regulatory role that relies on their ability to compete for microRNA binding, independently of their protein-coding function. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: As a model for the protein-coding-independent role of RNAs, we describe the functional relationship between the mRNAs produced by the PTEN tumour suppressor gene and its pseudogene PTENP1 and the critical consequences of this interaction. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: We find that PTENP1 is biologically active as it can regulate cellular levels of PTEN and exert a growth-suppressive role. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: We also show that the PTENP1 locus is selectively lost in human cancer. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: We extended our analysis to other cancer-related genes that possess pseudogenes, such as oncogenic KRAS. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: We also demonstrate that the transcripts of protein-coding genes such as PTEN are biologically active. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: These findings attribute a novel biological role to expressed pseudogenes, as they can regulate coding gene expression, and reveal a non-coding function for mRNAs. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: The SRY gene on the mammalian Y chromosome undoubtedly acts to determine testis, but it is still quite unclear how. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: It was originally supposed that SRY acts directly to activate other genes in the testis-determining pathway. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: This paper presents an alternative hypothesis that SRY functions indirectly, by interacting with related genes SOX3 (from which SRY evolved) and SOX9 (which appears to be intimately involved in vertebrate gonad differentiation). Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Specifically, I propose that in females SOX3 inhibits SOX9 function, but in males, SRY inhibits SOX3 and permits SOX9 to enact its testis-determining role. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: This hypothesis makes testable predictions of the phenotypes of XX and XY individuals with deficiencies or overproduction of any of the three genes, and is able to account for the difficult cases of XX(SRY-) males and transdifferentiation in the absence of SRY. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: The hypothesis also suggests a way that the dominant SRY sex-determining system of present-day mammals may have evolved from an ancient system relying on SOX3 dosage. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Ghrelin, a 28 amino acid peptide hormone produced by the stomach, was the first orexigenic hormone to be discovered from the periphery. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: The octanoyl modification at Ser³, mediated by ghrelin O-acyltransferase (GOAT), is essential for ghrelin's biological activity. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Ghrelin stimulates food intake through binding to its receptor (GRLN-R) on neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Ghrelin is widely expressed throughout the body; accordingly, it is implicated in several other physiological functions, which include growth hormone release, gastric emptying, and body weight regulation. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Ghrelin and GRLN-R expression are also found in the pancreas, suggesting a local physiological role. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Accordingly, several recent studies now point towards an important role for ghrelin and its receptor in the regulation of blood glucose homeostasis, which is the main focus of this review. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Several mechanisms of this regulation by ghrelin have been proposed, and one possibility is through the regulation of insulin secretion. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Despite some controversy, most studies suggest that ghrelin exerts an inhibitory effect on insulin secretion, resulting in increased circulating glucose levels. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Ghrelin may thus be a diabetogenic factor. Relevant:
Query: Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. Document: Obesity-related type 2 diabetes has become an increasingly important health problem, almost reaching epidemic proportions in the world; therefore, antagonists of the ghrelin-GOAT signaling pathway, which will tackle both energy- and glucose homeostasis, may be considered as promising new therapies for this disease. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: MOTIVATION The nucleosome is the basic repeating unit of chromatin. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: It contains two copies each of the four core histones H2A, H2B, H3 and H4 and about 147 bp of DNA. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: The residues of the histone proteins are subject to numerous post-translational modifications, such as methylation or acetylation. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Chromatin immunoprecipitiation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) is a technique that provides genome-wide occupancy data of these modified histone proteins, and it requires appropriate computational methods. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: RESULTS We present NucHunter, an algorithm that uses the data from ChIP-seq experiments directed against many histone modifications to infer positioned nucleosomes. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: NucHunter annotates each of these nucleosomes with the intensities of the histone modifications. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: We demonstrate that these annotations can be used to infer nucleosomal states with distinct correlations to underlying genomic features and chromatin-related processes, such as transcriptional start sites, enhancers, elongation by RNA polymerase II and chromatin-mediated repression. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Thus, NucHunter is a versatile tool that can be used to predict positioned nucleosomes from a panel of histone modification ChIP-seq experiments and infer distinct histone modification patterns associated to different chromatin states. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: AVAILABILITY The software is available at http://epigen.molgen.mpg.de/nuchunter/. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Pioneer transcription factors (TFs) function as genomic first responders, binding to inaccessible regions of chromatin to promote enhancer formation. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: The mechanism by which pioneer TFs gain access to chromatin remains an important unanswered question. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Here we show that PARP-1, a nucleosome-binding protein, cooperates with intrinsic properties of the pioneer TF Sox2 to facilitate its binding to intractable genomic loci in embryonic stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: These actions of PARP-1 occur independently of its poly(ADP-ribosyl) transferase activity. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: PARP-1-dependent Sox2-binding sites reside in euchromatic regions of the genome with relatively high nucleosome occupancy and low co-occupancy by other transcription factors. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: PARP-1 stabilizes Sox2 binding to nucleosomes at suboptimal sites through cooperative interactions on DNA. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Our results define intrinsic and extrinsic features that determine Sox2 pioneer activity. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: The conditional pioneer activity observed with Sox2 at a subset of binding sites may be a key feature of other pioneer TFs operating at intractable genomic loci. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Recognition of modified histones by ‘reader’ proteins plays a critical role in the regulation of chromatin. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: H3K36 trimethylation (H3K36me3) is deposited onto the nucleosomes in the transcribed regions after RNA polymerase II elongation. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: In yeast, this mark in turn recruits epigenetic regulators to reset the chromatin to a relatively repressive state, thus suppressing cryptic transcription. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: However, much less is known about the role of H3K36me3 in transcription regulation in mammals. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: This is further complicated by the transcription-coupled incorporation of the histone variant H3.3 in gene bodies. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Here we show that the candidate tumour suppressor ZMYND11 specifically recognizes H3K36me3 on H3.3 (H3.3K36me3) and regulates RNA polymerase II elongation. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Structural studies show that in addition to the trimethyl-lysine binding by an aromatic cage within the PWWP domain, the H3.3-dependent recognition is mediated by the encapsulation of the H3.3-specific ‘Ser 31’ residue in a composite pocket formed by the tandem bromo–PWWP domains of ZMYND11. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing shows a genome-wide co-localization of ZMYND11 with H3K36me3 and H3.3 in gene bodies, and its occupancy requires the pre-deposition of H3.3K36me3. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Although ZMYND11 is associated with highly expressed genes, it functions as an unconventional transcription co-repressor by modulating RNA polymerase II at the elongation stage. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: ZMYND11 is critical for the repression of a transcriptional program that is essential for tumour cell growth; low expression levels of ZMYND11 in breast cancer patients correlate with worse prognosis. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Consistently, overexpression of ZMYND11 suppresses cancer cell growth in vitro and tumour formation in mice. Relevant:
Query: Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. Document: Together, this study identifies ZMYND11 as an H3.3-specific reader of H3K36me3 that links the histone-variant-mediated transcription elongation control to tumour suppression. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Research on the human microbiome has established that commensal and pathogenic bacteria can influence obesity, cancer, and autoimmunity through mechanisms mostly unknown. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: We found that a component of bacterial biofilms, the amyloid protein curli, irreversibly formed fibers with bacterial DNA during biofilm formation. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: This interaction accelerated amyloid polymerization and created potent immunogenic complexes that activated immune cells, including dendritic cells, to produce cytokines such as type I interferons, which are pathogenic in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: When given systemically, curli-DNA composites triggered immune activation and production of autoantibodies in lupus-prone and wild-type mice. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: We also found that the infection of lupus-prone mice with curli-producing bacteria triggered higher autoantibody titers compared to curli-deficient bacteria. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: These data provide a mechanism by which the microbiome and biofilm-producing enteric infections may contribute to the progression of SLE and point to a potential molecular target for treatment of autoimmunity. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: In systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), self-reactive antibodies can target the kidney (lupus nephritis), leading to functional failure and possible mortality. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: We report that activation of basophils by autoreactive IgE causes their homing to lymph nodes, promoting T helper type 2 (T(H)2) cell differentiation and enhancing the production of self-reactive antibodies that cause lupus-like nephritis in mice lacking the Src family protein tyrosine kinase Lyn (Lyn(-/-) mice). Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Individuals with SLE also have elevated serum IgE, self-reactive IgEs and activated basophils that express CD62 ligand (CD62L) and the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecule human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR), parameters that are associated with increased disease activity and active lupus nephritis. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Basophils were also present in the lymph nodes and spleen of subjects with SLE. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Thus, in Lyn(-/-) mice, basophils and IgE autoantibodies amplify autoantibody production that leads to lupus nephritis, and in individuals with SLE IgE autoantibodies and activated basophils are factors associated with disease activity and nephritis. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Immune sensing of DNA is critical for antiviral immunity but can also trigger autoimmune diseases such as lupus erythematosus (LE). Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Here we have provided evidence for the involvement of a damage-associated DNA modification in the detection of cytosolic DNA. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: The oxidized base 8-hydroxyguanosine (8-OHG), a marker of oxidative damage in DNA, potentiated cytosolic immune recognition by decreasing its susceptibility to 3' repair exonuclease 1 (TREX1)-mediated degradation. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Oxidizative modifications arose physiologically in pathogen DNA during lysosomal reactive oxygen species (ROS) exposure, as well as in neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) DNA during the oxidative burst. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: 8-OHG was also abundant in UV-exposed skin lesions of LE patients and colocalized with type I interferon (IFN). Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Injection of oxidized DNA in the skin of lupus-prone mice induced lesions that closely matched respective lesions in patients. Relevant:
Query: Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. Document: Thus, oxidized DNA represents a prototypic damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) with important implications for infection, sterile inflammation, and autoimmunity. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Neutrophils rapidly undergo polarization and directional movement to infiltrate the sites of infection and inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Here, we show that an inhibitory MHC I receptor, Ly49Q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: During the steady state, Ly49Q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting Src and PI3 kinases. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: However, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, Ly49Q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an ITIM-domain-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: These opposite functions appeared to be mediated by distinct use of effector phosphatase SHP-1 and SHP-2. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Ly49Q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by Ly49Q regulation of membrane raft functions. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: We propose that Ly49Q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Elastases of both the neutrophil and macrophage have been implicated in lung disease initiation and progression. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Although it is unlikely that these proteases evolved for the purpose of injuring lung tissue, the elastin-rich connective tissue framework of the lungs appears to be particularly susceptible to the action of elastolytic proteases. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Assuming that neutrophil elastase most likely plays a role in the migration of neutrophils toward a site of inflammation and degradation of proteins from invading organisms or other products of the inflammatory response, it is the role of inhibitors of this protease to protect normal tissues from its effects. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: In alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency we find an experiment of nature that disrupts this protease-anti-protease balance, resulting in an increased risk of destructive lung disease. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: PURPOSE OF REVIEW As the migration of neutrophils from blood to inflamed tissues is an essential component of innate immunity and a key contributing factor to the pathogenesis of inflammatory disorders, this aspect of leukocyte biology continues to be a highly dynamic field of research. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: This review summarizes recent findings in this area, focusing on the mechanisms that mediate neutrophil transmigration, an area where significant progress has been made. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: RECENT FINDINGS The topics to be covered will include responses that are prerequisite to neutrophil migration through venular walls, such as leukocyte luminal crawling and cellular and molecular changes in leukocytes and endothelial cells (e.g. formation of protrusions) that collectively support leukocyte transendothelial cell migration. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Advances in both paracellular and transcellular neutrophil migration through endothelial cells will be discussed, addressing the associated roles and regulation of expression of endothelial cell luminal and junctional adhesion molecules. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: Beyond the endothelium, migration through the vascular pericyte coverage and basement membrane will be reviewed. Relevant:
Query: Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. Document: SUMMARY The unquestionable role of neutrophils in the development and progression of inflammatory conditions suggests that a better understanding of the tissue-specific and stimulus-specific mechanisms that mediate this response may identify novel pathways that could be exploited for the development of more specific anti-inflammatory interventions. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Macrophages are distributed in tissues throughout the body and contribute to both homeostasis and disease. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Recently, it has become evident that most adult tissue macrophages originate during embryonic development and not from circulating monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Each tissue has its own composition of embryonically derived and adult-derived macrophages, but it is unclear whether macrophages of distinct origins are functionally interchangeable or have unique roles at steady state. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: This new understanding also prompts reconsideration of the function of circulating monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Classical Ly6c(hi) monocytes patrol the extravascular space in resting organs, and Ly6c(lo) nonclassical monocytes patrol the vasculature. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Inflammation triggers monocytes to differentiate into macrophages, but whether resident and newly recruited macrophages possess similar functions during inflammation is unclear. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Here, we define the tools used for identifying the complex origin of tissue macrophages and discuss the relative contributions of tissue niche versus ontological origin to the regulation of macrophage functions during steady state and inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: AIM To examine the therapeutic/preventive potential of liposome-encapsulated spironolactone (SP; Lipo-SP) for acute lung injury (ALI) and fibrosis. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: MATERIALS & METHODS Lipo-SP was prepared by the film-ultrasonic method, and physicochemical and pharmacokinetic characterized for oral administration (10 and 20 mg/kg for SP-loaded liposome; 20 mg/kg for free SP) in a mouse model bleomycin-induced ALI. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: RESULTS Lipo-SP enhanced bioavailability of SP with significant amelioration in lung pathology. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Mechanistically, SP-mediated mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism contributes to inflammatory monocyte/macrophage modulation via an inhibitory effect on Ly6C(hi) monocytosis-directed M2 polarization of alveolar macrophages. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Moreover, Lipo-SP at lower dose (10 mg/kg) exhibited more improvement in body weight gain. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: CONCLUSION Our data highlight Lipo-SP as a promising approach with therapeutic/preventive potential for ALI and fibrosis. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Mononuclear phagocytes, including monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells, contribute to tissue integrity as well as to innate and adaptive immune defense. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Emerging evidence for labor division indicates that manipulation of these cells could bear therapeutic potential. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: However, specific ontogenies of individual populations and the overall functional organization of this cellular network are not well defined. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Here we report a fate-mapping study of the murine monocyte and macrophage compartment taking advantage of constitutive and conditional CX(3)CR1 promoter-driven Cre recombinase expression. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: We have demonstrated that major tissue-resident macrophage populations, including liver Kupffer cells and lung alveolar, splenic, and peritoneal macrophages, are established prior to birth and maintain themselves subsequently during adulthood independent of replenishment by blood monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. Document: Furthermore, we have established that short-lived Ly6C(+) monocytes constitute obligatory steady-state precursors of blood-resident Ly6C(-) cells and that the abundance of Ly6C(+) blood monocytes dynamically controls the circulation lifespan of their progeny. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Macrophages are distributed in tissues throughout the body and contribute to both homeostasis and disease. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Recently, it has become evident that most adult tissue macrophages originate during embryonic development and not from circulating monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Each tissue has its own composition of embryonically derived and adult-derived macrophages, but it is unclear whether macrophages of distinct origins are functionally interchangeable or have unique roles at steady state. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: This new understanding also prompts reconsideration of the function of circulating monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Classical Ly6c(hi) monocytes patrol the extravascular space in resting organs, and Ly6c(lo) nonclassical monocytes patrol the vasculature. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Inflammation triggers monocytes to differentiate into macrophages, but whether resident and newly recruited macrophages possess similar functions during inflammation is unclear. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Here, we define the tools used for identifying the complex origin of tissue macrophages and discuss the relative contributions of tissue niche versus ontological origin to the regulation of macrophage functions during steady state and inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Mononuclear phagocytes, including monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells, contribute to tissue integrity as well as to innate and adaptive immune defense. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Emerging evidence for labor division indicates that manipulation of these cells could bear therapeutic potential. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: However, specific ontogenies of individual populations and the overall functional organization of this cellular network are not well defined. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Here we report a fate-mapping study of the murine monocyte and macrophage compartment taking advantage of constitutive and conditional CX(3)CR1 promoter-driven Cre recombinase expression. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: We have demonstrated that major tissue-resident macrophage populations, including liver Kupffer cells and lung alveolar, splenic, and peritoneal macrophages, are established prior to birth and maintain themselves subsequently during adulthood independent of replenishment by blood monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Furthermore, we have established that short-lived Ly6C(+) monocytes constitute obligatory steady-state precursors of blood-resident Ly6C(-) cells and that the abundance of Ly6C(+) blood monocytes dynamically controls the circulation lifespan of their progeny. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: AIM To examine the therapeutic/preventive potential of liposome-encapsulated spironolactone (SP; Lipo-SP) for acute lung injury (ALI) and fibrosis. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: MATERIALS & METHODS Lipo-SP was prepared by the film-ultrasonic method, and physicochemical and pharmacokinetic characterized for oral administration (10 and 20 mg/kg for SP-loaded liposome; 20 mg/kg for free SP) in a mouse model bleomycin-induced ALI. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: RESULTS Lipo-SP enhanced bioavailability of SP with significant amelioration in lung pathology. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Mechanistically, SP-mediated mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism contributes to inflammatory monocyte/macrophage modulation via an inhibitory effect on Ly6C(hi) monocytosis-directed M2 polarization of alveolar macrophages. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: Moreover, Lipo-SP at lower dose (10 mg/kg) exhibited more improvement in body weight gain. Relevant:
Query: Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. Document: CONCLUSION Our data highlight Lipo-SP as a promising approach with therapeutic/preventive potential for ALI and fibrosis. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Within the developing mammalian CNS, growth factors direct multipotent precursors to generate neurons versus glia, a process that if perturbed might lead to neural dysfunction. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: In this regard, genetic mutations resulting in constitutive activation of the protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-2 cause Noonan Syndrome (NS), which is associated with learning disabilities and mental retardation. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Here, we demonstrate that genetic knockdown of SHP-2 in cultured cortical precursors or in the embryonic cortex inhibited basal neurogenesis and caused enhanced and precocious astrocyte formation. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Conversely, expression of an NS SHP-2 mutant promoted neurogenesis and inhibited astrogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Neural cell-fate decisions were similarly perturbed in a mouse knockin model that phenocopies human NS. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Thus, SHP-2 instructs precursors to make neurons and not astrocytes during the neurogenic period, and perturbations in the relative ratios of these two cell types upon constitutive SHP-2 activation may contribute to the cognitive impairments in NS patients. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: We generated a series of knockin mouse lines, in which the cytokine receptor gp130-dependent STAT3 and/or SHP2 signals were disrupted, by replacing the mouse gp130 gene with human gp130 mutant cDNAs. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: The SHP2 signal-deficient mice (gp130F759/F759 were born normal but displayed splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy and an enhanced acute phase reaction. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: In contrast, the STAT3 signal-deficient mice (gp130FXQ/FXXQ) died perinatally, like the gp130-deficient mice (gp130D/D). Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: The gp130F759/F759 mice showed prolonged gp130-induced STAT3 activation, indicating a negative regulatory role for SHP2. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Th1-type cytokine production and IgG2a and IgG2b production were increased in the gp130F759/F759 mice, while they were decreased in the gp130FXXQ/FXXQ immune system. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: These results indicate that the balance of positive and negative signals generated through gp130 regulates the immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Embryonic stem (ES) cells homozygous for a Shp-2 mutation (Shp-2(Delta46-110)) demonstrate leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) hypersensitivity and increased LIF-stimulated phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT3). Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: We hypothesized that LIF-responsive genes in Shp-2(Delta46-110) cells would represent potential candidates for molecules vital for ES cell self-renewal. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Using microarray analysis, we detected 41 genes whose expression was modified by LIF in Shp-2(Delta46-110) ES cells. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Induction of 2 significantly up-regulated genes, suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS-3) and Kruppel-like factor 4 (Klf4), was verified using Northern blotting. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: ES cells overexpressing SOCS-3 had an increased capacity to differentiate to hematopoietic progenitors, rather than to self-renew. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: In contrast, ES cells overexpressing Klf4 had a greater capacity to self-renew based on secondary embryoid body (EB) formation. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: Klf4-transduced d6 EBs expressed higher levels of Oct-4, consistent with the notion that Klf4 promotes ES cell self-renewal. Relevant:
Query: Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. Document: These findings verify the negative role of SOCS-3 on LIF signaling and provide a novel role for Klf4 in ES cell function. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONTEXT Increasing evidence supports the hypothesis of a causal association between certain bacterial infections and increased risk of developing acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: If such a causal association exists, subjects who used antibiotics active against the bacteria, regardless of indication, might be at lower risk of developing acute myocardial infarction than nonusers. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether previous use of antibiotics decreases the risk of developing a first-time acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: DESIGN Population-based case-control analysis. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: SETTING The United Kingdom-based General Practice Research Database comprising 350 general practices. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: PATIENTS A total of 3315 case patients aged 75 years or younger with a diagnosis of first-time acute myocardial infarction between 1992 and 1997 and 13139 controls without myocardial infarction matched to cases for age, sex, general practice attended, and calendar time. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Use of antibiotics among those who did or did not have a first-time acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: RESULTS Cases were significantly less likely to have used tetracycline antibiotics (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 0.70; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.55-0.90) or quinolones (adjusted OR, 0.45; 95% CI, 0.21-0.95). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: No effect was found for previous use of macrolides (primarily erythromycin), sulfonamides, penicillins, or cephalosporins. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONCLUSIONS The findings from this large case-control analysis provide further, albeit indirect, evidence for an association between bacterial infections with organisms susceptible to tetracycline or quinolone antibiotics and the risk of acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: These results of preliminary nature should stimulate more research to further explore the role of infections in the etiology of acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: OBJECTIVE To quantify the effects of quantity and frequency of alcohol consumption on risk of acute myocardial infarction and coronary death. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: DESIGN Case-control study. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: SETTING Lower Hunter region of New South Wales, Australia, 1983-94. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: SUBJECTS Men and women aged 35-69 years. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Acute myocardial infarction or coronary death. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: RESULTS Alcohol consumption patterns were compared between 11,511 cases of acute myocardial infarction or coronary death and 6077 controls randomly selected from the same study population. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: After adjusting for the effects of age, smoking, and medical history, men and women who consumed one or two drinks of alcohol on five or six days a week had a reduction in risk of a major coronary event compared with men and women who were non-drinkers (odds ratios: men 0.31 (95% confidence interval 0.22 to 0.45); women 0.33 (0.18 to 0.59)). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: A similar reduction in risk was found after excluding non-drinkers who were formerly moderate to heavy drinkers. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: An acute protective effect of alcohol consumption was also found for regular drinkers who consumed one or two drinks in the 24 hours preceding the onset of symptoms (odds ratios: men 0.74 (0.51 to 1.09); women 0.43 (0.20 to 0.95)). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONCLUSIONS Frequency and quantity of alcohol consumption are important in assessing the risk of a major coronary event. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: Risk is lowest among men who report one to four drinks daily on five or six days a week and among women who report one or two drinks daily on five or six days a week. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: OBJECTIVE To obtain summary estimates of the accuracy of a single baseline measurement of the Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay (Roche Diagnostics) for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: DESIGN Systematic review and meta-analysis of diagnostic test accuracy studies. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: DATA SOURCES Medline, Embase, and other relevant electronic databases were searched for papers published between January 2006 and December 2013. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: STUDY SELECTION Studies were included if they evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of a single baseline measurement of Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department with suspected acute coronary syndrome. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: STUDY APPRAISAL AND DATA SYNTHESIS The first author screened all titles and abstracts identified through the searches and selected all potentially relevant papers. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: The screening of the full texts, the data extraction, and the methodological quality assessment, using the adapted QUADAS-2 tool, were conducted independently by two reviewers with disagreements being resolved through discussion or arbitration. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: If appropriate, meta-analysis was conducted using the hierarchical bivariate model. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: RESULTS Twenty three studies reported the performance of the evaluated assay at presentation. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: The results for 14 ng/L and 3-5 ng/L cut-off values were pooled separately. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: At 14 ng/L (20 papers), the summary sensitivity was 89.5% (95% confidence interval 86.3% to 92.1%) and the summary specificity was 77.1% (68.7% to 83.7%). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: At 3-5 ng/L (six papers), the summary sensitivity was 97.4% (94.9% to 98.7%) and the summary specificity was 42.4% (31.2% to 54.5%). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: This means that if 21 of 100 consecutive patients have the target condition (21%, the median prevalence across the studies), 2 (95% confidence interval 2 to 3) of 21 patients with acute myocardial infarction will be missed (false negatives) if 14 ng/L is used as a cut-off value and 18 (13 to 25) of 79 patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive (false positives). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: If the 3-5 ng/L cut-off value is used, <1 (0 to 1) patient with acute myocardial infarction will be missed and 46 (36 to 54) patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONCLUSIONS The results indicate that a single baseline measurement of the Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay could be used to rule out acute myocardial infarction if lower cut-off values such as 3 ng/L or 5 ng/L are used. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: However, this method should be part of a comprehensive triage strategy and may not be appropriate for patients who present less than three hours after symptom onset. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: Care must also be exercised because of the higher imprecision of the evaluated assay and the greater effect of lot-to-lot reagent variation at low troponin concentrations. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. Document: SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION PROSPERO registration number CRD42013003926. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONTEXT Increasing evidence supports the hypothesis of a causal association between certain bacterial infections and increased risk of developing acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: If such a causal association exists, subjects who used antibiotics active against the bacteria, regardless of indication, might be at lower risk of developing acute myocardial infarction than nonusers. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether previous use of antibiotics decreases the risk of developing a first-time acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: DESIGN Population-based case-control analysis. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: SETTING The United Kingdom-based General Practice Research Database comprising 350 general practices. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: PATIENTS A total of 3315 case patients aged 75 years or younger with a diagnosis of first-time acute myocardial infarction between 1992 and 1997 and 13139 controls without myocardial infarction matched to cases for age, sex, general practice attended, and calendar time. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Use of antibiotics among those who did or did not have a first-time acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: RESULTS Cases were significantly less likely to have used tetracycline antibiotics (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 0.70; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.55-0.90) or quinolones (adjusted OR, 0.45; 95% CI, 0.21-0.95). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: No effect was found for previous use of macrolides (primarily erythromycin), sulfonamides, penicillins, or cephalosporins. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONCLUSIONS The findings from this large case-control analysis provide further, albeit indirect, evidence for an association between bacterial infections with organisms susceptible to tetracycline or quinolone antibiotics and the risk of acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: These results of preliminary nature should stimulate more research to further explore the role of infections in the etiology of acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: OBJECTIVE To quantify the effects of quantity and frequency of alcohol consumption on risk of acute myocardial infarction and coronary death. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: DESIGN Case-control study. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: SETTING Lower Hunter region of New South Wales, Australia, 1983-94. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: SUBJECTS Men and women aged 35-69 years. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Acute myocardial infarction or coronary death. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: RESULTS Alcohol consumption patterns were compared between 11,511 cases of acute myocardial infarction or coronary death and 6077 controls randomly selected from the same study population. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: After adjusting for the effects of age, smoking, and medical history, men and women who consumed one or two drinks of alcohol on five or six days a week had a reduction in risk of a major coronary event compared with men and women who were non-drinkers (odds ratios: men 0.31 (95% confidence interval 0.22 to 0.45); women 0.33 (0.18 to 0.59)). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: A similar reduction in risk was found after excluding non-drinkers who were formerly moderate to heavy drinkers. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: An acute protective effect of alcohol consumption was also found for regular drinkers who consumed one or two drinks in the 24 hours preceding the onset of symptoms (odds ratios: men 0.74 (0.51 to 1.09); women 0.43 (0.20 to 0.95)). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONCLUSIONS Frequency and quantity of alcohol consumption are important in assessing the risk of a major coronary event. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: Risk is lowest among men who report one to four drinks daily on five or six days a week and among women who report one or two drinks daily on five or six days a week. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: BACKGROUND Lowering the blood cholesterol level may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: This double-blind study was designed to determine whether the administration of pravastatin to men with hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction reduced the combined incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction and death from coronary heart disease. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: METHODS We randomly assigned 6595 men, 45 to 64 years of age, with a mean (+/- Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: SD) plasma cholesterol level of 272 +/- Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: 23 mg per deciliter (7.0 +/- 0.6 mmol per liter) to receive pravastatin (40 mg each evening) or placebo. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: The average follow-up period was 4.9 years. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: Medical records, electrocardiographic recordings, and the national death registry were used to determine the clinical end points. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: RESULTS Pravastatin lowered plasma cholesterol levels by 20 percent and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels by 26 percent, whereas there was no change with placebo. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: There were 248 definite coronary events (specified as nonfatal myocardial infarction or death from coronary heart disease) in the placebo group, and 174 in the pravastatin group (relative reduction in risk with pravastatin, 31 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 17 to 43 percent; P < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: There were similar reductions in the risk of definite nonfatal myocardial infarctions (31 percent reduction, P < 0.001), death from coronary heart disease (definite cases alone: 28 percent reduction, P = 0.13; definite plus suspected cases: 33 percent reduction, P = 0.042), and death from all cardiovascular causes (32 percent reduction, P = 0.033). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: There was no excess of deaths from noncardiovascular causes in the pravastatin group. Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: We observed a 22 percent reduction in the risk of death from any cause in the pravastatin group (95 percent confidence interval, 0 to 40 percent; P = 0.051). Relevant:
Query: Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. Document: CONCLUSIONS Treatment with pravastatin significantly reduced the incidence of myocardial infarction and death from cardiovascular causes without adversely affecting the risk of death from noncardiovascular causes in men with moderate hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Macropinocytosis is a highly conserved endocytic process by which extracellular fluid and its contents are internalized into cells through large, heterogeneous vesicles known as macropinosomes. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Oncogenic Ras proteins have been shown to stimulate macropinocytosis but the functional contribution of this uptake mechanism to the transformed phenotype remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Here we show that Ras-transformed cells use macropinocytosis to transport extracellular protein into the cell. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: The internalized protein undergoes proteolytic degradation, yielding amino acids including glutamine that can enter central carbon metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Accordingly, the dependence of Ras-transformed cells on free extracellular glutamine for growth can be suppressed by the macropinocytic uptake of protein. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Consistent with macropinocytosis representing an important route of nutrient uptake in tumours, its pharmacological inhibition compromises the growth of Ras-transformed pancreatic tumour xenografts. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: These results identify macropinocytosis as a mechanism by which cancer cells support their unique metabolic needs and point to the possible exploitation of this process in the design of anticancer therapies. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Despite being surrounded by diverse nutrients, mammalian cells preferentially metabolize glucose and free amino acids. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Recently, Ras-induced macropinocytosis of extracellular proteins was shown to reduce a transformed cell's dependence on extracellular glutamine. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Here, we demonstrate that protein macropinocytosis can also serve as an essential amino acid source. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Lysosomal degradation of extracellular proteins can sustain cell survival and induce activation of mTORC1 but fails to elicit significant cell accumulation. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Unlike its growth-promoting activity under amino-acid-replete conditions, we discovered that mTORC1 activation suppresses proliferation when cells rely on extracellular proteins as an amino acid source. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Inhibiting mTORC1 results in increased catabolism of endocytosed proteins and enhances cell proliferation during nutrient-depleted conditions in vitro and within vascularly compromised tumors in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Thus, by preventing nutritional consumption of extracellular proteins, mTORC1 couples growth to availability of free amino acids. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: These results may have important implications for the use of mTOR inhibitors as therapeutics. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Copper plays an essential role in processes including signaling to the transcription and protein trafficking machinery, oxidative phosphorylation, iron mobilization, neuropeptide maturation, and normal development. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Whereas much is known about intracellular mobilization of ions such as calcium, little information is available on how eukaryotic cells mobilize intracellular copper stores. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: We describe a mechanism by which the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ctr2 protein provides bioavailable copper via mobilization of intracellular copper stores. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Whereas Ctr2 exhibits structural similarity to the Ctr1 plasma membrane copper importer, microscopic and biochemical fractionation studies localize Ctr2 to the vacuole membrane. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: We demonstrate that Ctr2 mobilizes vacuolar copper stores in a manner dependent on amino acid residues conserved between the Ctr1 and Ctr2 copper transport family and that ctr2 Delta mutants hyper-accumulate vacuolar copper. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: Furthermore, a Ctr2 mutant that is mislocalized to the plasma membrane stimulates extracellular copper uptake, supporting a direct role for Ctr2 in copper transport across membranes. Relevant:
Query: Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. Document: These studies identify a novel mechanism for copper mobilization and suggest that organisms cope with copper deprivation via the use of intracellular vesicular stores. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Genetic information is packaged in the highly dynamic nucleoprotein structure called chromatin. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Many biological processes are regulated via post-translational modifications of key proteins. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Acetylation of lysine residues at the N-terminal histone tails is one of the most studied covalent modifications influencing gene regulation in eukaryotic cells. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: This review focuses on the role of enzymes involved in controlling both histone and non-histone proteins acetylation levels in the cell, with particular emphasis on their effects on cancer. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Lysine acetylation is a conserved protein post-translational modification that links acetyl-coenzyme A metabolism and cellular signalling. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Recent advances in the identification and quantification of lysine acetylation by mass spectrometry have increased our understanding of lysine acetylation, implicating it in many biological processes through the regulation of protein interactions, activity and localization. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: In addition, proteins are frequently modified by other types of acylations, such as formylation, butyrylation, propionylation, succinylation, malonylation, myristoylation, glutarylation and crotonylation. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: The intricate link between lysine acylation and cellular metabolism has been clarified by the occurrence of several such metabolite-sensitive acylations and their selective removal by sirtuin deacylases. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: These emerging findings point to new functions for different lysine acylations and deacylating enzymes and also highlight the mechanisms by which acetylation regulates various cellular processes. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Amino-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life: the N-terminus of a nascent polypeptide chain becomes co-translationally acetylated, often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: While the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied, only little is known about the biological function of such N-terminal modification events. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: To identify common principles of N-terminal acetylation, we analyzed the amino-terminal peptides from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: We detected more than 1,200 mature protein N-termini and could show that N-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: As the sole true determinant for N-terminal acetylation we could extract the (X)PX rule that indicates the prevention of acetylation under all circumstances. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: We could show that this rule can be used to genetically engineer a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetyl group, thereby generating a generic assay to probe the functional importance of N-terminal acetylation. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: We applied the assay by expressing mutated proteins as transgenes in cell lines and in flies. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Here, we present a straightforward strategy to systematically study the functional relevance of N-terminal acetylations in cells and whole organisms. Relevant:
Query: Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. Document: Since the (X)PX rule seems to be of general validity in lower as well as higher eukaryotes, we propose that it can be used to study the function of N-terminal acetylation in all species. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: BACKGROUND Malaria elimination requires a variety of approaches individually optimized for different transmission settings. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: A recent field study in an area of low seasonal transmission in South West Cambodia demonstrated dramatic reductions in malaria parasite prevalence following both mass drug administration (MDA) and high treatment coverage of symptomatic patients with artemisinin-piperaquine plus primaquine. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: This study employed multiple combined strategies and it was unclear what contribution each made to the reductions in malaria. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: METHOD AND FINDINGS A mathematical model fitted to the trial results was used to assess the effects of the various components of these interventions, design optimal elimination strategies, and explore their interactions with artemisinin resistance, which has recently been discovered in Western Cambodia. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: The modelling indicated that most of the initial reduction of P. falciparum malaria resulted from MDA with artemisinin-piperaquine. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: The subsequent continued decline and near elimination resulted mainly from high coverage with artemisinin-piperaquine treatment. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Both these strategies were more effective with the addition of primaquine. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: MDA with artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) increased the proportion of artemisinin resistant infections, although much less than treatment of symptomatic cases with ACT, and this increase was slowed by adding primaquine. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Artemisinin resistance reduced the effectiveness of interventions using ACT when the prevalence of resistance was very high. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: The main results were robust to assumptions about primaquine action, and immunity. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: CONCLUSIONS The key messages of these modelling results for policy makers were: high coverage with ACT treatment can produce a long-term reduction in malaria whereas the impact of MDA is generally only short-term; primaquine enhances the effect of ACT in eliminating malaria and reduces the increase in proportion of artemisinin resistant infections; parasite prevalence is a better surveillance measure for elimination programmes than numbers of symptomatic cases; combinations of interventions are most effective and sustained efforts are crucial for successful elimination. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: BACKGROUND Artemisinin derivatives used in recently introduced combination therapies (ACTs) for Plasmodium falciparum malaria significantly lower patient infectiousness and have the potential to reduce population-level transmission of the parasite. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: With the increased interest in malaria elimination, understanding the impact on transmission of ACT and other antimalarial drugs with different pharmacodynamics becomes a key issue. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: This study estimates the reduction in transmission that may be achieved by introducing different types of treatment for symptomatic P. falciparum malaria in endemic areas. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS We developed a mathematical model to predict the potential impact on transmission outcomes of introducing ACT as first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria in six areas of varying transmission intensity in Tanzania. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: We also estimated the impact that could be achieved by antimalarials with different efficacy, prophylactic time, and gametocytocidal effects. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Rates of treatment, asymptomatic infection, and symptomatic infection in the six study areas were estimated using the model together with data from a cross-sectional survey of 5,667 individuals conducted prior to policy change from sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine to ACT. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: The effects of ACT and other drug types on gametocytaemia and infectiousness to mosquitoes were independently estimated from clinical trial data. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Predicted percentage reductions in prevalence of infection and incidence of clinical episodes achieved by ACT were highest in the areas with low initial transmission. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: A 53% reduction in prevalence of infection was seen if 100% of current treatment was switched to ACT in the area where baseline slide-prevalence of parasitaemia was lowest (3.7%), compared to an 11% reduction in the highest-transmission setting (baseline slide prevalence = 57.1%). Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Estimated percentage reductions in incidence of clinical episodes were similar. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: The absolute size of the public health impact, however, was greater in the highest-transmission area, with 54 clinical episodes per 100 persons per year averted compared to five per 100 persons per year in the lowest-transmission area. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: High coverage was important. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Reducing presumptive treatment through improved diagnosis substantially reduced the number of treatment courses required per clinical episode averted in the lower-transmission settings although there was some loss of overall impact on transmission. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: An efficacious antimalarial regimen with no specific gametocytocidal properties but a long prophylactic time was estimated to be more effective at reducing transmission than a short-acting ACT in the highest-transmission setting. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: CONCLUSIONS Our results suggest that ACTs have the potential for transmission reductions approaching those achieved by insecticide-treated nets in lower-transmission settings. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: ACT partner drugs and nonartemisinin regimens with longer prophylactic times could result in a larger impact in higher-transmission settings, although their long term benefit must be evaluated in relation to the risk of development of parasite resistance. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: BACKGROUND Artemisinin combination therapies (ACT), which are increasingly being introduced for treatment of Plasmodium falciparum malaria, are more effective against sexual stage parasites (gametocytes) than previous first-line antimalarials and therefore have the potential to reduce parasite transmission. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: The size of this effect is estimated in symptomatic P. falciparum infections. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: METHODS Data on 3,174 patients were pooled from six antimalarial trials conducted in The Gambia and Kenya. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Multivariable regression was used to investigate the role of ACT versus non-artemisinin antimalarial treatment, treatment failure, presence of pre-treatment gametocytes and submicroscopic gametocytaemia on transmission to mosquitoes and the area under the curve (AUC) of gametocyte density during the 28 days of follow up. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: RESULTS ACT treatment was associated with a significant reduction in the probability of being gametocytaemic on the day of transmission experiments (OR 0.20 95% CI 0.16-0.26), transmission to mosquitoes by slide-positive gametocyte carriers (OR mosquito infection 0.49 95% CI 0.33-0.73) and AUC of gametocyte density (ratio of means 0.35 95% CI 0.31-0.41). Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Parasitological treatment failure did not account for the difference between ACT and non-artemisinin impact. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: The presence of slide-positive gametocytaemia prior to treatment significantly reduced ACT impact on gametocytaemia (p < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Taking account of submicroscopic gametocytaemia reduced estimates of ACT impact in a high transmission setting in Kenya, but not in a lower transmission setting in the Gambia. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: CONCLUSION Treatment with ACT significantly reduces infectiousness of individual patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria compared to previous first line treatments. Relevant:
Query: Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. Document: Rapid treatment of cases before gametocytaemia is well developed may enhance the impact of ACT on transmission. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: 6-Mercaptopurine (6MP) and methotrexate are the backbone of continuation therapy for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: In studies of oral 6MP and methotrexate, indices of chronic systemic exposure to active metabolites of these agents, namely, red blood cell (RBC) concentrations of methotrexate polyglutamates (MTXPGs) and thioguanine nucleotides (TGNs) have positively correlated with event-free survival (EFS). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Our objective was to evaluate whether MTXPGs, TGNs, and the dose intensity of administered methotrexate and 6MP were prognostic in the setting of a treatment protocol in which all treatment was coordinated through a single center, and the weekly doses of methotrexate were given parenterally. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: On protocol Total XII, 182 children achieved remission and received weekly methotrexate 40 mg/m2 parenterally and daily oral 6MP, interrupted every 6 weeks during the first year by pulse chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: A total of 709 TGN, 418 MTX-PG, and 267 thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) measurements, along with complete dose intensity information (dose received divided by protocol dose per week) for 19,046 weeks of 6MP and methotrexate, were analyzed. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: In univariate analyses, only higher dose intensity of 6MP and of weekly methotrexate were significant predictors of overall EFS (P =.006 and. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: 039, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: The occurrence of neutropenia was associated with worse outcome (P =.040). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: In a multivariate analysis, only higher dose intensity of 6MP (P =.020) was a significant predictor of EFS, with lower TPMT activity (P =.096) tending to associate with better outcome. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: 6MP dose intensity was also associated (P =.007) with EFS among patients with homozygous wild-type TPMT phenotype. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Lower 6MP dose intensity was primarily due to missed weeks of therapy and not to reductions in daily dose. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: We conclude that increased dose-intensity of oral 6MP is an important determinant of EFS in ALL, particularly among those children with a homozygous wild-type TPMT phenotype. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: However, increasing intensity of therapy such that neutropenia precludes chemotherapy administration may be counterproductive. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Thiopurine therapy, commonly used in autoimmune conditions, can be complicated by life-threatening leukopenia. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: This leukopenia is associated with genetic variation in TPMT (encoding thiopurine S-methyltransferase). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Despite a lower frequency of TPMT mutations in Asians, the incidence of thiopurine-induced leukopenia is higher in Asians than in individuals of European descent. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Here we performed an Immunochip-based 2-stage association study in 978 Korean subjects with Crohn's disease treated with thiopurines. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: We identified a nonsynonymous SNP in NUDT15 (encoding p. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Arg139Cys) that was strongly associated with thiopurine-induced early leukopenia (odds ratio (OR) = 35.6; Pcombined = 4.88 × 10−94). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: In Koreans, this variant demonstrated sensitivity and specificity of 89.4% and 93.2%, respectively, for thiopurine-induced early leukopenia (in comparison to 12.1% and 97.6% for TPMT variants). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Although rare, this SNP was also strongly associated with thiopurine-induced leukopenia in subjects with inflammatory bowel disease of European descent (OR = 9.50; P = 4.64 × 10−4). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Thus, NUDT15 is a pharmacogenetic determinant for thiopurine-induced leukopenia in diverse populations. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Currently, major concerns about the safety and efficacy of RNA interference (RNAi)-based bone anabolic strategies still exist because of the lack of direct osteoblast-specific delivery systems for osteogenic siRNAs. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Here we screened the aptamer CH6 by cell-SELEX, specifically targeting both rat and human osteoblasts, and then we developed CH6 aptamer–functionalized lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) encapsulating osteogenic pleckstrin homology domain-containing family O member 1 (Plekho1) siRNA (CH6-LNPs-siRNA). Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: Our results showed that CH6 facilitated in vitro osteoblast-selective uptake of Plekho1 siRNA, mainly via macropinocytosis, and boosted in vivo osteoblast-specific Plekho1 gene silencing, which promoted bone formation, improved bone microarchitecture, increased bone mass and enhanced mechanical properties in both osteopenic and healthy rodents. Relevant:
Query: Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). Document: These results indicate that osteoblast-specific aptamer-functionalized LNPs could act as a new RNAi-based bone anabolic strategy, advancing the targeted delivery selectivity of osteogenic siRNAs from the tissue level to the cellular level. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: BACKGROUND Elderly and frail patients with cancer, although often treated with chemotherapy, are under-represented in clinical trials. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: We designed FOCUS2 to investigate reduced-dose chemotherapy options and to seek objective predictors of outcome in frail patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: METHODS We undertook an open, 2 × 2 factorial trial in 61 UK centres for patients with previously untreated advanced colorectal cancer who were considered unfit for full-dose chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: After comprehensive health assessment (CHA), patients were randomly assigned by minimisation to: 48-h intravenous fluorouracil with levofolinate (group A); oxaliplatin and fluorouracil (group B); capecitabine (group C); or oxaliplatin and capecitabine (group D). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Treatment allocation was not masked. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Starting doses were 80% of standard doses, with discretionary escalation to full dose after 6 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: The two primary outcome measures were: addition of oxaliplatin ([A vs B] + [C vs D]), assessed with progression-free survival (PFS); and substitution of fluorouracil with capecitabine ([A vs C] + [B vs D]), assessed by change from baseline to 12 weeks in global quality of life (QoL). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Analysis was by intention to treat. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Baseline clinical and CHA data were modelled against outcomes with a novel composite measure, overall treatment utility (OTU). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: This study is registered, number ISRCTN21221452. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: FINDINGS 459 patients were randomly assigned (115 to each of groups A-C, 114 to group D). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Factorial comparison of addition of oxaliplatin versus no addition suggested some improvement in PFS, but the finding was not significant (median 5·8 months [IQR 3·3-7·5] vs 4·5 months [2·8-6·4]; hazard ratio 0·84, 95% CI 0·69-1·01, p=0·07). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Replacement of fluorouracil with capecitabine did not improve global QoL: 69 of 124 (56%) patients receiving fluorouracil reported improvement in global QoL compared with 69 of 123 (56%) receiving capecitabine. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: The risk of having any grade 3 or worse toxic effect was not significantly increased with oxaliplatin (83/219 [38%] vs 70/221 [32%]; p=0·17), but was higher with capecitabine than with fluorouracil (88/222 [40%] vs 65/218 [30%]; p=0·03). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: In multivariable analysis, fewer baseline symptoms (odds ratio 1·32, 95% CI 1·14-1·52), less widespread disease (1·51, 1·05-2·19), and use of oxaliplatin (0·57, 0·39-0·82) were predictive of better OTU. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: INTERPRETATION FOCUS2 shows that with an appropriate design, including reduced starting doses of chemotherapy, frail and elderly patients can participate in a randomised controlled trial. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: On balance, a combination including oxaliplatin was preferable to single-agent fluoropyrimidines, although the primary endpoint of PFS was not met. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Capecitabine did not improve QoL compared with fluorouracil. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Comprehensive baseline assessment holds promise as an objective predictor of treatment benefit. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: FUNDING Cancer Research UK and the Medical Research Council. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) is increasingly treated using targeted therapies. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Post-marketing safety of these agents is understudied, especially in the elderly. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: This study aimed to compare, according to age, the adverse drug reactions (ADRs) of targeted therapies used for mCRC in real life. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: An extraction of VigiBase, which contains World Health Organization individual case safety reports (ICSRs), was performed. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: All ADR reports with aflibercept, bevacizumab, cetuximab, panitumumab, or regorafenib used in CRC were considered. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: For all drugs, chi-square tests were used to compare frequencies of serious ADRs between patients aged ≥75 and <75 years. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: For selected ADRs and each drug, the drug-ADR association compared to other anticancer drugs was estimated through the proportional reporting ratio (PRR) in both age groups. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: There were 21,565 ICSRs included, among which 74% were serious and 11% were fatal. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Median age was 64 years (Inter Quartile Range = 56–71) and 15% of patients were aged ≥75; 57% were male. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Serious ICSRs accounted for 47,292 ADRs. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Neutropenia was not more reported in elderly for all drugs while diarrhea was more reported in elderly for panitumumab. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Cardiac disorders were more reported in elderly patients, in particular heart failure, especially for bevacizumab, cetuximab, and regorafenib, as were respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Most of PRR were not different between the two groups, except encephalopathies, which were significantly associated with bevacizumab in the elderly only. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: ADRs related to targeted therapies used for mCRC treatment were different across age groups; yet, not systematically more reported or worse in elderly patients. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Selected elderly patients could, therefore, be treated with these targeted therapies. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: BACKGROUND Molecularly targeted agents have been reported to have anti-tumour activity for patients whose tumours harbour the matching molecular alteration. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: These results have led to increased off-label use of molecularly targeted agents on the basis of identified molecular alterations. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: We assessed the efficacy of several molecularly targeted agents marketed in France, which were chosen on the basis of tumour molecular profiling but used outside their indications, in patients with advanced cancer for whom standard-of-care therapy had failed. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: METHODS The open-label, randomised, controlled phase 2 SHIVA trial was done at eight French academic centres. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: We included adult patients with any kind of metastatic solid tumour refractory to standard of care, provided they had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 or 1, disease that was accessible for a biopsy or resection of a metastatic site, and at least one measurable lesion. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: The molecular profile of each patient's tumour was established with a mandatory biopsy of a metastatic tumour and large-scale genomic testing. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: We only included patients for whom a molecular alteration was identified within one of three molecular pathways (hormone receptor, PI3K/AKT/mTOR, RAF/MEK), which could be matched to one of ten regimens including 11 available molecularly targeted agents (erlotinib, lapatinib plus trastuzumab, sorafenib, imatinib, dasatinib, vemurafenib, everolimus, abiraterone, letrozole, tamoxifen). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: We randomly assigned these patients (1:1) to receive a matched molecularly targeted agent (experimental group) or treatment at physician's choice (control group) by central block randomisation (blocks of size six). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Randomisation was done centrally with a web-based response system and was stratified according to the Royal Marsden Hospital prognostic score (0 or 1 vs 2 or 3) and the altered molecular pathway. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Clinicians and patients were not masked to treatment allocation. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Treatments in both groups were given in accordance with the approved product information and standard practice protocols at each institution and were continued until evidence of disease progression. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: The primary endpoint was progression-free survival in the intention-to-treat population, which was not assessed by independent central review. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: We assessed safety in any patients who received at least one dose of their assigned treatment. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01771458. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: FINDINGS Between Oct 4, 2012, and July 11, 2014, we screened 741 patients with any tumour type. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: 293 (40%) patients had at least one molecular alteration matching one of the 10 available regimens. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: At the time of data cutoff, Jan 20, 2015, 195 (26%) patients had been randomly assigned, with 99 in the experimental group and 96 in the control group. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: All patients in the experimental group started treatment, as did 92 in the control group. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Two patients in the control group received a molecularly targeted agent: both were included in their assigned group for efficacy analyses, the patient who received an agent that was allowed in the experimental group was included in the experimental group for the purposes of safety analyses, while the other patient, who received a molecularly targeted agent and chemotherapy, was kept in the control group for safety analyses. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Median follow-up was 11·3 months (IQR 5·8-11·6) in the experimental group and 11·3 months (8·1-11·6) in the control group at the time of the primary analysis of progression-free survival. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Median progression-free survival was 2·3 months (95% CI 1·7-3·8) in the experimental group versus 2·0 months (1·8-2·1) in the control group (hazard ratio 0·88, 95% CI 0·65-1·19, p=0·41). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: In the safety population, 43 (43%) of 100 patients treated with a molecularly targeted agent and 32 (35%) of 91 patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy had grade 3-4 adverse events (p=0·30). Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: INTERPRETATION The use of molecularly targeted agents outside their indications does not improve progression-free survival compared with treatment at physician's choice in heavily pretreated patients with cancer. Relevant:
Query: Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. Document: Off-label use of molecularly targeted agents should be discouraged, but enrolment in clinical trials should be encouraged to assess predictive biomarkers of efficacy. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: DNA polymerase lambda (polλ) is a recently identified DNA polymerase whose cellular function remains elusive. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: Here we show, that polλ participates at the molecular level in a chromosomal context, in the repair of DNA double strand breaks (DSB) via non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) in mammalian cells. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: The expression of a catalytically inactive form of polλ (polλDN) decreases the frequency of NHEJ events in response to I-Sce-I-induced DSB whereas inactivated forms of its homologues polβ and polμ do not. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: Only events requiring DNA end processing before ligation are affected; this defect is associated with large deletions arising in the vicinity of the induced DSB. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: Furthermore, polλDN-expressing cells exhibit increased sensitization and genomic instability in response to ionizing radiation similar to that of NHEJ-defective cells. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: Our data support a requirement for polλ in repairing a subset of DSB in genomic DNA, thereby contributing to the maintenance of genetic stability mediated by the NHEJ pathway. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: DNA polymerase β (Pol β) is an error-prone enzyme which has been found to be overexpressed in several human tumors. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: By using a couple of recombinant CHO cells differing only from the exogenous expression of Pol β, we showed here that cells overexpressing Pol β are much more sensitive to IR treatments by increasing apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: We also found that the surviving cells displayed an hypermutator phenotype which could be explained by different pathways involving Pol β, such as (i) an increased capacity to incorporate into DNA the mutagenic dGTP analog, 8-oxo-dGTP, one of the most abundant purine-derived nucleotides exposed to γ-irradiation, (ii) the induction of IR-induced DNA breaks and (iii) accumulation of chromosome aberrations induced by radiation. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: Alteration of Pol β expression in irradiated cells thus appears to strengthen both cell death and genetic changes associated with a malignant phenotype. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: These data provide new insights into the cellular response to radiations and the associated carcinogenic consequences. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: Mammalian DNA polymerase mu (pol mu) is related to terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, but its biological role is not yet clear. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: We show here that after exposure of cells to ionizing radiation (IR), levels of pol mu protein increase. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: pol mu also forms discrete nuclear foci after IR, and these foci are largely coincident with IR-induced foci of gammaH2AX, a previously characterized marker of sites of DNA double-strand breaks. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: pol mu is thus part of the cellular response to DNA double-strand breaks. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: pol mu also associates in cell extracts with the nonhomologous end-joining repair factor Ku and requires both Ku and another end-joining factor, XRCC4-ligase IV, to form a stable complex on DNA in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: pol mu in turn facilitates both stable recruitment of XRCC4-ligase IV to Ku-bound DNA and ligase IV-dependent end joining. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: In contrast, the related mammalian DNA polymerase beta does not form a complex with Ku and XRCC4-ligase IV and is less effective than pol mu in facilitating joining mediated by these factors. Relevant:
Query: Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Document: Our data thus support an important role for pol mu in the end-joining pathway for repair of double-strand breaks. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: BACKGROUND Interleukin (IL)-12 exerts a potent proinflammatory effect by stimulating T-helper (Th) 1 responses. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: This effect is believed to be mediated primarily through the activation of STAT4 and subsequent production of interferon (IFN)-gamma. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Methods and Results- We examined the role of IL-12 receptor (IL-12R) signaling in the development of murine experimental autoimmune myocarditis (EAM) induced by cardiac myosin immunization. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Both IL-12Rbeta1-deficient mice and STAT4-deficient mice were resistant to the induction of myocarditis. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Treatment with exogenous IL-12 exacerbated disease. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: We questioned whether IFN-gamma is required for the disease-promoting activity of IL-12. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: On the contrary, we found that IFN-gamma suppresses EAM. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Lack of IFN-gamma due to either depletion with an antibody or a genetic deficiency exacerbated myocarditis. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Spleens from IFN-gamma-deficient mice immunized with cardiac myosin showed increased cellularity; greater numbers of CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, and IL-2-producing cells; and heightened ability to produce cytokines on stimulation in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Treatment of mice with recombinant IFN-gamma suppressed the development of myocarditis. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: CONCLUSIONS IL-12/IL-12R/STAT4 signaling promotes the development of EAM. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: In contrast, IFN-gamma plays a protective role. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: The disease-limiting effects of IFN-gamma might be explained by its ability to control the expansion of activated T lymphocytes. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: BACKGROUND Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) is an essential cytokine in the regulation of inflammatory responses in autoimmune diseases. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Little is known about its role in inflammatory heart disease. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS We showed that IFN-gamma receptor-deficient mice (IFN-gammaR(-/-)) on a BALB/c background immunized with a peptide derived from cardiac alpha-myosin heavy chain develop severe myocarditis with high mortality. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Although myocarditis subsided in wild-type mice after 3 weeks, IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice showed persistent disease. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: The persistent inflammation was accompanied by vigorous in vitro CD4 T-cell responses and impaired inducible nitric oxide synthase expression, together with evidence of impaired nitric oxide production in IFN-gammaR(-/-) hearts. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Treatment of wild-type mice with the nitric oxide synthetase inhibitor N:-nitro-l-arginine-methyl-ester enhanced in vitro CD4 T-cell proliferation and prevented healing of myocarditis. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: CONCLUSIONS Our data provide evidence that IFN-gamma protects mice from lethal autoimmune myocarditis by inducing the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase followed by the downregulation of T-cell responses. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: IL-21 is a pleiotropic type 1 cytokine that shares the common cytokine receptor γ-chain, γ(c), with IL-2, IL-4, IL-7, IL-9, and IL-15. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: IL-21 is most homologous to IL-2. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: These cytokines are encoded by adjacent genes, but they are functionally distinct. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Whereas IL-2 promotes development of regulatory T cells and confers protection from autoimmune disease, IL-21 promotes differentiation of Th17 cells and is implicated in several autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes and systemic lupus erythematosus. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: However, the roles of IL-21 and IL-2 in CNS autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis and uveitis have been controversial. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Here, we generated Il21-mCherry/Il2-emGFP dual-reporter transgenic mice and showed that development of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) correlated with the presence of T cells coexpressing IL-21 and IL-2 into the retina. Relevant:
Query: Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Document: Furthermore, Il21r(-/-) mice were more resistant to EAU development than wild-type mice, and adoptive transfer of Il21r(-/-) T cells induced much less severe EAU, underscoring the need for IL-21 in the development of this disease and suggesting that blocking IL-21/γ(c)-signaling pathways may provide a means for controlling CNS auto-inflammatory diseases. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Experimental autoimmune myocarditis (EAM) represents a Th17 T cell-mediated mouse model of postinflammatory heart disease. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: In BALB/c wild-type mice, EAM is a self-limiting disease, peaking 21 days after alpha-myosin H chain peptide (MyHC-alpha)/CFA immunization and largely resolving thereafter. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: In IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice, however, EAM is exacerbated and shows a chronic progressive disease course. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: We found that this progressive disease course paralleled persistently elevated IL-17 release from T cells infiltrating the hearts of IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice 30 days after immunization. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: In fact, IL-17 promoted the recruitment of CD11b(+) monocytes, the major heart-infiltrating cells in EAM. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: In turn, CD11b(+) monocytes suppressed MyHC-alpha-specific Th17 T cell responses IFN-gamma-dependently in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: In vivo, injection of IFN-gammaR(+/+)CD11b(+), but not IFN-gammaR(-/-)CD11b(+), monocytes, suppressed MyHC-alpha-specific T cells, and abrogated the progressive disease course in IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Finally, coinjection of MyHC-alpha-specific, but not OVA-transgenic, IFN-gamma-releasing CD4(+) Th1 T cell lines, together with MyHC-alpha-specific Th17 T cells protected RAG2(-/-) mice from EAM. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: In conclusion, CD11b(+) monocytes play a dual role in EAM: as a major cellular substrate of IL-17-induced inflammation and as mediators of an IFN-gamma-dependent negative feedback loop confining disease progression. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: BACKGROUND Interleukin (IL)-12 exerts a potent proinflammatory effect by stimulating T-helper (Th) 1 responses. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: This effect is believed to be mediated primarily through the activation of STAT4 and subsequent production of interferon (IFN)-gamma. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Methods and Results- We examined the role of IL-12 receptor (IL-12R) signaling in the development of murine experimental autoimmune myocarditis (EAM) induced by cardiac myosin immunization. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Both IL-12Rbeta1-deficient mice and STAT4-deficient mice were resistant to the induction of myocarditis. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Treatment with exogenous IL-12 exacerbated disease. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: We questioned whether IFN-gamma is required for the disease-promoting activity of IL-12. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: On the contrary, we found that IFN-gamma suppresses EAM. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Lack of IFN-gamma due to either depletion with an antibody or a genetic deficiency exacerbated myocarditis. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Spleens from IFN-gamma-deficient mice immunized with cardiac myosin showed increased cellularity; greater numbers of CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, and IL-2-producing cells; and heightened ability to produce cytokines on stimulation in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Treatment of mice with recombinant IFN-gamma suppressed the development of myocarditis. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: CONCLUSIONS IL-12/IL-12R/STAT4 signaling promotes the development of EAM. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: In contrast, IFN-gamma plays a protective role. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: The disease-limiting effects of IFN-gamma might be explained by its ability to control the expansion of activated T lymphocytes. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: RATIONALE The myeloid differentiation factor (MyD)88/interleukin (IL)-1 axis activates self-antigen-presenting cells and promotes autoreactive CD4(+) T-cell expansion in experimental autoimmune myocarditis, a mouse model of inflammatory heart disease. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to determine the role of MyD88 and IL-1 in the progression of acute myocarditis to an end-stage heart failure. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS Using alpha-myosin heavy chain peptide (MyHC-alpha)-loaded, activated dendritic cells, we induced myocarditis in wild-type and MyD88(-/-) mice with similar distributions of heart-infiltrating cell subsets and comparable CD4(+) T-cell responses. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) or MyHC-alpha/CFA into diseased mice promoted cardiac fibrosis, induced ventricular dilation, and impaired heart function in wild-type but not in MyD88(-/-) mice. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: Experiments with chimeric mice confirmed the bone marrow origin of the fibroblasts replacing inflammatory infiltrates and showed that MyD88 and IL-1 receptor type I signaling on bone marrow-derived cells was critical for development of cardiac fibrosis during progression to heart failure. Relevant:
Query: Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. Document: CONCLUSIONS Our findings indicate a critical role of MyD88/IL-1 signaling in the bone marrow compartment in postinflammatory cardiac fibrosis and heart failure and point to novel therapeutic strategies against inflammatory cardiomyopathy. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: To characterize the properties of adult neural stem cells (NSCs), we generated and analyzed Sox2-GFP transgenic mice. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Sox2-GFP cells in the subgranular zone (SGZ) express markers specific for progenitors, but they represent two morphologically distinct populations that differ in proliferation levels. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Lentivirus- and retrovirus-mediated fate-tracing studies showed that Sox2+ cells in the SGZ have potential to give rise to neurons and astrocytes, revealing their multipotency at the population as well as at a single-cell level. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: A subpopulation of Sox2+ cells gives rise to cells that retain Sox2, highlighting Sox2+ cells as a primary source for adult NSCs. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: In response to mitotic signals, increased proliferation of Sox2+ cells is coupled with the generation of Sox2+ NSCs as well as neuronal precursors. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: An asymmetric contribution of Sox2+ NSCs may play an important role in maintaining the constant size of the NSC pool and producing newly born neurons during adult neurogenesis. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: The four transcription factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc can induce pluripotency in mouse and human fibroblasts. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: We previously described direct reprogramming of adult mouse neural stem cells (NSCs) by Oct4 and either Klf4 or c-Myc. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: NSCs endogenously express Sox2, c-Myc, and Klf4 as well as several intermediate reprogramming markers. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Here we report that exogenous expression of the germline-specific transcription factor Oct4 is sufficient to generate pluripotent stem cells from adult mouse NSCs. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: These one-factor induced pluripotent stem cells (1F iPS) are similar to embryonic stem cells in vitro and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Not only can these cells can be efficiently differentiated into NSCs, cardiomyocytes, and germ cells in vitro, but they are also capable of teratoma formation and germline transmission in vivo. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Our results demonstrate that Oct4 is required and sufficient to directly reprogram NSCs to pluripotency. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Neural stem cells are precursors of neurons and glial cells. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: During brain development, these cells proliferate, migrate and differentiate into specific lineages. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Recently neural stem cells within the adult central nervous system were identified. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Informations are now emerging about regulation of stem cell proliferation, migration and differentiation by numerous soluble factors such as chemokines and cytokines. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: However, the signal transduction mechanisms downstream of these factors are less clear. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Here, we review potential evidences for a novel central role of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) in these crucial signal transduction processes. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: NF-kappaB is an inducible transcription factor detected in neurons, glia and neural stem cells. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: NF-kappaB was discovered by David Baltimore's laboratory as a transcription factor in lymphocytes. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: NF-kappaB is involved in many biological processes such as inflammation and innate immunity, development, apoptosis and anti-apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: It has been recently shown that members of the NF-kappaB family are widely expressed by neurons, glia and neural stem cells. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: In the nervous system, NF-kappaB plays a crucial role in neuronal plasticity, learning, memory consolidation, neuroprotection and neurodegeneration. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Recent data suggest an important role of NF-kappaB on proliferation, migration and differentiation of neural stem cells. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: NF-kappaB is composed of three subunits: two DNA-binding and one inhibitory subunit. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Activation of NF-kappaB takes place in the cytoplasm and results in degradation of the inhibitory subunit, thus enabling the nuclear import of the DNA-binding subunits. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Within the nucleus, several target genes could be activated. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: In this review, we suggest a model explaining the multiple action of NF-kappaB on neural stem cells. Relevant:
Query: MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis Document: Furthermore, we discuss the potential role of NF-kappaB within the so-called brain cancer stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: BACKGROUND The pneumococcus is a diverse pathogen whose primary niche is the nasopharynx. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Over 90 different serotypes exist, and nasopharyngeal carriage of multiple serotypes is common. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Understanding pneumococcal carriage is essential for evaluating the impact of pneumococcal vaccines. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Traditional serotyping methods are cumbersome and insufficient for detecting multiple serotype carriage, and there are few data comparing the new methods that have been developed over the past decade. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: We established the PneuCarriage project, a large, international multi-centre study dedicated to the identification of the best pneumococcal serotyping methods for carriage studies. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Reference sample sets were distributed to 15 research groups for blinded testing. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Twenty pneumococcal serotyping methods were used to test 81 laboratory-prepared (spiked) samples. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: The five top-performing methods were used to test 260 nasopharyngeal (field) samples collected from children in six high-burden countries. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Sensitivity and positive predictive value (PPV) were determined for the test methods and the reference method (traditional serotyping of >100 colonies from each sample). Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: For the alternate serotyping methods, the overall sensitivity ranged from 1% to 99% (reference method 98%), and PPV from 8% to 100% (reference method 100%), when testing the spiked samples. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Fifteen methods had ≥70% sensitivity to detect the dominant (major) serotype, whilst only eight methods had ≥70% sensitivity to detect minor serotypes. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: For the field samples, the overall sensitivity ranged from 74.2% to 95.8% (reference method 93.8%), and PPV from 82.2% to 96.4% (reference method 99.6%). Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: The microarray had the highest sensitivity (95.8%) and high PPV (93.7%). Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: The major limitation of this study is that not all of the available alternative serotyping methods were included. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: CONCLUSIONS Most methods were able to detect the dominant serotype in a sample, but many performed poorly in detecting the minor serotype populations. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Microarray with a culture amplification step was the top-performing method. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Results from this comprehensive evaluation will inform future vaccine evaluation and impact studies, particularly in low-income settings, where pneumococcal disease burden remains high. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: BACKGROUND Microarrays offer great potential as a platform for molecular diagnostics, testing clinical samples for the presence of numerous biomarkers in highly multiplexed assays. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: In this study applied to infectious diseases, data from a microarray designed for molecular serotyping of Streptococcus pneumoniae was used, identifying the presence of any one of 91 known pneumococcal serotypes from DNA extracts. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: This microarray incorporated oligonucleotide probes for all known capsular polysaccharide synthesis genes and required a statistical analysis of the microarray intensity data to determine which serotype, or combination of serotypes, were present within a sample based on the combination of genes detected. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: RESULTS We propose an empirical Bayesian model for calculating the probabilities of combinations of serotypes from the microarray data. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: The model takes into consideration the dependencies between serotypes, induced by genes they have in common, and by homologous genes which, although not identical, are similar to each other in sequence. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: For serotypes which are very similar in capsular gene composition, extra probes are included on the microarray, providing additional information which is integrated into the Bayesian model. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: For each serotype combination with high probability, a second model, a Bayesian random effects model is applied to determine the relative abundance of each serotype. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: CONCLUSIONS To assess the accuracy of the proposed analysis we applied our methods to experimental data from samples containing individual serotypes and samples containing combinations of serotypes with known levels of abundance. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: All but two of the known serotypes of S. pneumoniae that were tested as individual samples could be uniquely determined by the Bayesian model. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: The model also enabled the presence of combinations of serotypes within samples to be determined. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Serotypes with very low abundance within a combination of serotypes can be detected (down to 2% abundance in this study). Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: As well as detecting the presence of serotype combinations, an approximate measure of the percentage abundance of the serotypes within the combination can be obtained. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Almost immediately after a human being is born, so too is a new microbial ecosystem, one that resides in that person's gastrointestinal tract. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Although it is a universal and integral part of human biology, the temporal progression of this process, the sources of the microbes that make up the ecosystem, how and why it varies from one infant to another, and how the composition of this ecosystem influences human physiology, development, and disease are still poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: As a step toward systematically investigating these questions, we designed a microarray to detect and quantitate the small subunit ribosomal RNA (SSU rRNA) gene sequences of most currently recognized species and taxonomic groups of bacteria. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: We used this microarray, along with sequencing of cloned libraries of PCR-amplified SSU rDNA, to profile the microbial communities in an average of 26 stool samples each from 14 healthy, full-term human infants, including a pair of dizygotic twins, beginning with the first stool after birth and continuing at defined intervals throughout the first year of life. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: To investigate possible origins of the infant microbiota, we also profiled vaginal and milk samples from most of the mothers, and stool samples from all of the mothers, most of the fathers, and two siblings. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: The composition and temporal patterns of the microbial communities varied widely from baby to baby. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: Despite considerable temporal variation, the distinct features of each baby's microbial community were recognizable for intervals of weeks to months. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: The strikingly parallel temporal patterns of the twins suggested that incidental environmental exposures play a major role in determining the distinctive characteristics of the microbial community in each baby. Relevant:
Query: Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. Document: By the end of the first year of life, the idiosyncratic microbial ecosystems in each baby, although still distinct, had converged toward a profile characteristic of the adult gastrointestinal tract. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Vascular calcification is a strong independent predictor of increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and has a high prevalence among patients with chronic kidney disease. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: The present study investigated the effects of quercetin on vascular calcification caused by oxidative stress and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics both in vitro and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Calcifying vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) treated with inorganic phosphate (Pi) exhibited mitochondrial dysfunction, as demonstrated by decreased mitochondrial potential and ATP production. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Disruption of mitochondrial structural integrity was also observed in a rat model of adenine-induced aortic calcification. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Increased production of reactive oxygen species, enhanced expression and phosphorylation of Drp1, and excessive mitochondrial fragmentation were also observed in Pi-treated VSMCs. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: These effects were accompanied by mitochondria-dependent apoptotic events, including release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into the cytosol and subsequent activation of caspase-3. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Quercetin was shown to block Pi-induced apoptosis and calcification of VSMCs by inhibiting oxidative stress and decreasing mitochondrial fission by inhibiting the expression and phosphorylation of Drp1. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Quercetin also significantly ameliorated adenine-induced aortic calcification in rats. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: In summary, our findings suggest that quercetin attenuates calcification by reducing apoptosis of VSMCs by blocking oxidative stress and inhibiting mitochondrial fission. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: In this review I summarize interrelations between bioenergetic processes and such programmed death phenomena as cell suicide (apoptosis and necrosis) and mitochondrial suicide (mitoptosis). Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: The following conclusions are made. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: (I) ATP and rather often mitochondrial hyperpolarization (i.e. an increase in membrane potential, ΔΨ) are required for certain steps of apoptosis and necrosis. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: (II) Apoptosis, even if it is accompanied by ΔΨ and [ATP] increases at its early stage, finally results in a ΔΨ collapse and ATP decrease. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: (III) Moderate (about three-fold) lowering of [ATP] for short and long periods of time induces apoptosis and necrosis, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: In some types of apoptosis and necrosis, the cell death is mediated by a ΔΨ-dependent overproduction of ROS by the initial (Complex I) and the middle (Complex III) spans of the respiratory chain. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: ROS initiate mitoptosis which is postulated to rid the intracellular population of mitochondria from those that are ROS overproducing. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Massive mitoptosis can result in cell death due to release to cytosol of the cell death proteins normally hidden in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Mitochondria are the primary energy-generating system in most eukaryotic cells. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Additionally, they participate in intermediary metabolism, calcium signaling, and apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Given these well-established functions, it might be expected that mitochondrial dysfunction would give rise to a simple and predictable set of defects in all tissues. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: However, mitochondrial dysfunction has pleiotropic effects in multicellular organisms. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Clearly, much about the basic biology of mitochondria remains to be understood. Relevant:
Query: Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. Document: Here we discuss recent work that suggests that the dynamics (fusion and fission) of these organelles is important in development and disease. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: During aging, the mechanisms that normally maintain health and stress resistance strikingly decline, resulting in decrepitude, frailty, and ultimately death. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Exactly when and how this decline occurs is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Changes in transcriptional networks and chromatin state lie at the heart of age-dependent decline. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: These epigenomic changes are not only observed during aging but also profoundly affect cellular function and stress resistance, thereby contributing to the progression of aging. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: We propose that the dysregulation of transcriptional and chromatin networks is a crucial component of aging. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Understanding age-dependent epigenomic changes will yield key insights into how aging begins and progresses and should lead to the development of new therapeutics that delay or even reverse aging and age-related diseases. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: The process of aging results in a host of changes at the cellular and molecular levels, which include senescence, telomere shortening, and changes in gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Epigenetic patterns also change over the lifespan, suggesting that epigenetic changes may constitute an important component of the aging process. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: The epigenetic mark that has been most highly studied is DNA methylation, the presence of methyl groups at CpG dinucleotides. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: These dinucleotides are often located near gene promoters and associate with gene expression levels. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Early studies indicated that global levels of DNA methylation increase over the first few years of life and then decrease beginning in late adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Recently, with the advent of microarray and next-generation sequencing technologies, increases in variability of DNA methylation with age have been observed, and a number of site-specific patterns have been identified. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: It has also been shown that certain CpG sites are highly associated with age, to the extent that prediction models using a small number of these sites can accurately predict the chronological age of the donor. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Together, these observations point to the existence of two phenomena that both contribute to age-related DNA methylation changes: epigenetic drift and the epigenetic clock. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: In this review, we focus on healthy human aging throughout the lifetime and discuss the dynamics of DNA methylation as well as how interactions between the genome, environment, and the epigenome influence aging rates. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: We also discuss the impact of determining 'epigenetic age' for human health and outline some important caveats to existing and future studies. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Epigenetic processes play a key role in orchestrating transcriptional regulation during development. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: The importance of DNA methylation in fetal brain development is highlighted by the dynamic expression of de novo DNA methyltransferases during the perinatal period and neurodevelopmental deficits associated with mutations in the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: However, our knowledge about the temporal changes to the epigenome during fetal brain development has, to date, been limited. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: We quantified genome-wide patterns of DNA methylation at ∼ 400,000 sites in 179 human fetal brain samples (100 male, 79 female) spanning 23 to 184 d post-conception. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: We identified highly significant changes in DNA methylation across fetal brain development at >7% of sites, with an enrichment of loci becoming hypomethylated with fetal age. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Sites associated with developmental changes in DNA methylation during fetal brain development were significantly underrepresented in promoter regulatory regions but significantly overrepresented in regions flanking CpG islands (shores and shelves) and gene bodies. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Highly significant differences in DNA methylation were observed between males and females at a number of autosomal sites, with a small number of regions showing sex-specific DNA methylation trajectories across brain development. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: Weighted gene comethylation network analysis (WGCNA) revealed discrete modules of comethylated loci associated with fetal age that are significantly enriched for genes involved in neurodevelopmental processes. Relevant:
Query: Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. Document: This is, to our knowledge, the most extensive study of DNA methylation across human fetal brain development to date, confirming the prenatal period as a time of considerable epigenomic plasticity. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: The transition from androgen-dependent to castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is a lethal event of uncertain molecular etiology. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Comparing gene expression in isogenic androgen-dependent and CRPC xenografts, we found a reproducible increase in N-cadherin expression, which was also elevated in primary and metastatic tumors of individuals with CRPC. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Ectopic expression of N-cadherin in nonmetastatic, androgen-dependent prostate cancer models caused castration resistance, invasion and metastasis. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of N-cadherin reduced proliferation, adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: In vivo, these antibodies slowed the growth of multiple established CRPC xenografts, blocked local invasion and metastasis and, at higher doses, led to complete regression. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: N-cadherin–specific antibodies markedly delayed the time to emergence of castration resistance, markedly affected tumor histology and angiogenesis, and reduced both AKT serine-threonine kinase activity and serum interleukin-8 (IL-8) secretion. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: These data indicate that N-cadherin is a major cause of both prostate cancer metastasis and castration resistance. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Therapeutic targeting of this factor with monoclonal antibodies may have considerable clinical benefit. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) promote tumour invasion and metastasis. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: We show that CAFs exert a physical force on cancer cells that enables their collective invasion. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Force transmission is mediated by a heterophilic adhesion involving N-cadherin at the CAF membrane and E-cadherin at the cancer cell membrane. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: This adhesion is mechanically active; when subjected to force it triggers β-catenin recruitment and adhesion reinforcement dependent on α-catenin/vinculin interaction. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Impairment of E-cadherin/N-cadherin adhesion abrogates the ability of CAFs to guide collective cell migration and blocks cancer cell invasion. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: N-cadherin also mediates repolarization of the CAFs away from the cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: In parallel, nectins and afadin are recruited to the cancer cell/CAF interface and CAF repolarization is afadin dependent. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Heterotypic junctions between CAFs and cancer cells are observed in patient-derived material. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Together, our findings show that a mechanically active heterophilic adhesion between CAFs and cancer cells enables cooperative tumour invasion. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Broadly neutralizing antibodies against highly variable viral pathogens are much sought after to treat or protect against global circulating viruses. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Here we probed the neutralizing antibody repertoires of four human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected donors with remarkably broad and potent neutralizing responses and rescued 17 new monoclonal antibodies that neutralize broadly across clades. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Many of the new monoclonal antibodies are almost tenfold more potent than the recently described PG9, PG16 and VRC01 broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and 100-fold more potent than the original prototype HIV broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: The monoclonal antibodies largely recapitulate the neutralization breadth found in the corresponding donor serum and many recognize novel epitopes on envelope (Env) glycoprotein gp120, illuminating new targets for vaccine design. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Analysis of neutralization by the full complement of anti-HIV broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies now available reveals that certain combinations of antibodies should offer markedly more favourable coverage of the enormous diversity of global circulating viruses than others and these combinations might be sought in active or passive immunization regimes. Relevant:
Query: Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. Document: Overall, the isolation of multiple HIV broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies from several donors that, in aggregate, provide broad coverage at low concentrations is a highly positive indicator for the eventual design of an effective antibody-based HIV vaccine. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Many fundamental aspects of DNA replication, such as the exact locations where DNA synthesis is initiated and terminated, how frequently origins are used, and how fork progression is influenced by transcription, are poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Via the deep sequencing of Okazaki fragments, we comprehensively document replication fork directionality throughout the S. cerevisiae genome, which permits the systematic analysis of initiation, origin efficiency, fork progression, and termination. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: We show that leading-strand initiation preferentially occurs within a nucleosome-free region at replication origins. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Using a strain in which late origins can be induced to fire early, we show that replication termination is a largely passive phenomenon that does not rely on cis-acting sequences or replication fork pausing. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: The replication profile is predominantly determined by the kinetics of origin firing, allowing us to reconstruct chromosome-wide timing profiles from an asynchronous culture. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: The evolutionarily conserved G-quadruplexes (G4s) are faithfully inherited and serve a variety of cellular functions such as telomere maintenance, gene regulation, DNA replication initiation, and epigenetic regulation. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Different from the Watson-Crick base-pairing found in duplex DNA, G4s are formed via Hoogsteen base pairing and are very stable and compact DNA structures. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Failure of untangling them in the cell impedes DNA-based transactions and leads to genome instability. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Cells have evolved highly specific helicases to resolve G4 structures. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: We used a recombinant nuclear form of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pif1 to characterize Pif1-mediated DNA unwinding with a substrate mimicking an ongoing lagging strand synthesis stalled by G4s, which resembles a replication origin and a G4-structured flap in Okazaki fragment maturation. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: We find that the presence of G4 may greatly stimulate the Pif1 helicase to unwind duplex DNA. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Further studies reveal that this stimulation results from G4-enhanced Pif1 dimerization, which is required for duplex DNA unwinding. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: This finding provides new insights into the properties and functions of G4s. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: We discuss the observed activation phenomenon in relation to the possible regulatory role of G4s in the rapid rescue of the stalled lagging strand synthesis by helping the replicator recognize and activate the replication origin as well as by quickly removing the G4-structured flap during Okazaki fragment maturation. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Proteolytic processing of the beta-amyloid precursor proteins (APP) is required for release of the beta/A4 protein and its deposition into the amyloid plaques characteristic of aging and Alzheimer's disease. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: We have examined the involvement of acidic intracellular compartments in APP processing in cultured human cells. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: The use of acidotropic agents and inhibitors to a specific class of lysosomal protease, coupled with metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation, revealed that APP is degraded within an acidic compartment to produce at least 12 COOH-terminal fragments. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Nine likely contain the entire beta/A4 domain and, therefore, are potentially amyloidogenic. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Treatment with E64 or Z-Phe-Ala-CHN2 irreversibly blocked activities of the lysosomal cysteine proteases cathepsins B and L but did not inhibit the lysosomal aspartic protease cathepsin D and did not alter the production of potentially amyloidogenic fragments. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Instead, the inhibitors prevented further degradation of the fragments. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Thus, large numbers of potentially amyloidogenic fragments of APP are routinely generated in an acidic compartment by noncysteine proteases and then are eliminated within lysosomes by cysteine proteases. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: Immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses confirmed that chronic cysteine protease inhibition leads to accumulation of potentially amyloidogenic APP fragments in lysosomes. Relevant:
Query: Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. Document: The results provide further support for the hypothesis that an acidic compartment may be involved in amyloid formation and begin to define the proteolytic events that may be important for amyloidogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: The only proven requirement for ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is in preventing scurvy, presumably because it is a cofactor for hydroxylases required for post-translational modifications that stabilize collagen. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: We have created mice deficient in the mouse ortholog (solute carrier family 23 member 1 or Slc23a1) of a rat ascorbic-acid transporter, Svct2 (ref. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: 4). Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Cultured embryonic fibroblasts from homozygous Slc23a1−/− mice had less than 5% of normal ascorbic-acid uptake. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Ascorbic-acid levels were undetectable or markedly reduced in the blood and tissues of Slc23a1−/− mice. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Prenatal supplementation of pregnant females did not elevate blood ascorbic acid in Slc23a1−/− fetuses, suggesting Slc23a1 is important in placental ascorbic-acid transport. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Slc23a1−/− mice died within a few minutes of birth with respiratory failure and intraparenchymal brain hemorrhage. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Lungs showed no postnatal expansion but had normal surfactant protein B levels. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Brain hemorrhage was unlikely to be simply a form of scurvy since Slc23a1−/− mice showed no hemorrhage in any other tissues and their skin had normal skin 4-hydroxyproline levels despite low ascorbic-acid content. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: We conclude that Slc23a1 is required for transport of ascorbic acid into many tissues and across the placenta. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Deficiency of the transporter is lethal in newborn mice, thereby revealing a previously unrecognized requirement for ascorbic acid in the perinatal period. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Exposure to psychosocial stress is a risk factor for many diseases, including atherosclerosis. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Although incompletely understood, interaction between the psyche and the immune system provides one potential mechanism linking stress and disease inception and progression. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Known cross-talk between the brain and immune system includes the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, which centrally drives glucocorticoid production in the adrenal cortex, and the sympathetic-adrenal-medullary axis, which controls stress-induced catecholamine release in support of the fight-or-flight reflex. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: It remains unknown, however, whether chronic stress changes hematopoietic stem cell activity. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Here we show that stress increases proliferation of these most primitive hematopoietic progenitors, giving rise to higher levels of disease-promoting inflammatory leukocytes. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: We found that chronic stress induced monocytosis and neutrophilia in humans. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: While investigating the source of leukocytosis in mice, we discovered that stress activates upstream hematopoietic stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Under conditions of chronic variable stress in mice, sympathetic nerve fibers released surplus noradrenaline, which signaled bone marrow niche cells to decrease CXCL12 levels through the β3-adrenergic receptor. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Consequently, hematopoietic stem cell proliferation was elevated, leading to an increased output of neutrophils and inflammatory monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: When atherosclerosis-prone Apoe(-/-) mice were subjected to chronic stress, accelerated hematopoiesis promoted plaque features associated with vulnerable lesions that cause myocardial infarction and stroke in humans. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: The Drosophila spaghetti squash ( sqh ) gene encodes the regulatory myosin light chain (RMLC) of nonmuscle myosin II. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Biochemical analysis of vertebrate nonmuscle and smooth muscle myosin II has established that phosphorylation of certain amino acids of the RMLC greatly increases the actin-dependent myosin ATPase and motor activity of myosin in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: We have assessed the in vivo importance of these sites, which in Drosophila correspond to serine-21 and threonine-20, by creating a series of transgenes in which these specific amino acids were altered. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: The phenotypes of the transgenes were examined in an otherwise null mutant background during oocyte development in Drosophila females. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Germ line cystoblasts entirely lacking a functional sqh gene show severe defects in proliferation and cytokinesis. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: The ring canals, cytoplasmic bridges linking the oocyte to the nurse cells in the egg chamber, are abnormal, suggesting a role of myosin II in their establishment or maintenance. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: In addition, numerous aggregates of myosin heavy chain accumulate in the sqh null cells. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Mutant sqh transgene sqh -A20, A21 in which both serine-21 and threonine-20 have been replaced by alanines behaves in most respects identically to the null allele in this system, with the exception that no heavy chain aggregates are found. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: In contrast, expression of sqh -A21, in which only the primary phosphorylation target serine-21 site is altered, partially restores functionality to germ line myosin II, allowing cystoblast division and oocyte development, albeit with some cytokinesis failure, defects in the rapid cytoplasmic transport from nurse cells to cytoplasm characteristic of late stage oogenesis, and some damaged ring canals. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Substituting a glutamate for the serine-21 (mutant sqh -E21) allows oogenesis to be completed with minimal defects, producing eggs that can develop normally to produce fertile adults. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Flies expressing sqh -A20, in which only the secondary phosphorylation site is absent, appear to be entirely wild type. Relevant:
Query: Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. Document: Taken together, this genetic evidence argues that phosphorylation at serine-21 is critical to RMLC function in activating myosin II in vivo, but that the function can be partially provided by phosphorylation at threonine-20. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Activating mutations in genes encoding G protein α (Gα) subunits occur in 4-5% of all human cancers, but oncogenic alterations in Gβ subunits have not been defined. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Here we demonstrate that recurrent mutations in the Gβ proteins GNB1 and GNB2 confer cytokine-independent growth and activate canonical G protein signaling. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Multiple mutations in GNB1 affect the protein interface that binds Gα subunits as well as downstream effectors and disrupt Gα interactions with the Gβγ dimer. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Different mutations in Gβ proteins clustered partly on the basis of lineage; for example, all 11 GNB1 K57 mutations were in myeloid neoplasms, and seven of eight GNB1 I80 mutations were in B cell neoplasms. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Expression of patient-derived GNB1 variants in Cdkn2a-deficient mouse bone marrow followed by transplantation resulted in either myeloid or B cell malignancies. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: In vivo treatment with the dual PI3K-mTOR inhibitor BEZ235 suppressed GNB1-induced signaling and markedly increased survival. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: In several human tumors, mutations in the gene encoding GNB1 co-occurred with oncogenic kinase alterations, including the BCR-ABL fusion protein, the V617F substitution in JAK2 and the V600K substitution in BRAF. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Coexpression of patient-derived GNB1 variants with these mutant kinases resulted in inhibitor resistance in each context. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Thus, GNB1 and GNB2 alterations confer transformed and resistance phenotypes across a range of human tumors and may be targetable with inhibitors of G protein signaling. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: The AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a ubiquitous mammalian protein kinase important in the adaptation of cells to metabolic stress. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: The enzyme is a heterotrimer, consisting of a catalytic alpha subunit and regulatory beta and gamma subunits, each of which is a member of a larger isoform family. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: The enzyme is allosterically regulated by AMP and by phosphorylation of the alpha subunit. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: The beta subunit is post-translationally modified by myristoylation and multi-site phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: In the present study, we have examined the impact of post-translational modification of the beta-1 subunit on enzyme activity, heterotrimer assembly and subcellular localization, using site-directed mutagenesis and expression of subunits in mammalian cells. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Removal of the myristoylation site (G2A mutant) results in a 4-fold activation of the enzyme and relocalization of the beta subunit from a particulate extranuclear distribution to a more homogenous cell distribution. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Mutation of the serine-108 phosphorylation site to alanine is associated with enzyme inhibition, but no change in cell localization. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: In contrast, the phosphorylation site mutations, SS24, 25AA and S182A, while having no effects on enzyme activity, are associated with nuclear redistribution of the subunit. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Taken together, these results indicate that both myristoylation and phosphorylation of the beta subunit of AMPK modulate enzyme activity and subunit cellular localization, increasing the complexity of AMPK regulation. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) pathway deregulation is a common event in human cancer, either through inactivation of the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted from chromosome 10 or activating mutations of p110-alpha. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: These hotspot mutations result in oncogenic activity of the enzyme and contribute to therapeutic resistance to the anti-HER2 antibody trastuzumab. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: The PI3K pathway is, therefore, an attractive target for cancer therapy. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: We have studied NVP-BEZ235, a dual inhibitor of the PI3K and the downstream mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: NVP-BEZ235 inhibited the activation of the downstream effectors Akt, S6 ribosomal protein, and 4EBP1 in breast cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: The antiproliferative activity of NVP-BEZ235 was superior to the allosteric selective mTOR complex inhibitor everolimus in a panel of 21 cancer cell lines of different origin and mutation status. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: The described Akt activation due to mTOR inhibition was prevented by higher doses of NVP-BEZ235. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: NVP-BEZ235 reversed the hyperactivation of the PI3K/mTOR pathway caused by the oncogenic mutations of p110-alpha, E545K, and H1047R, and inhibited the proliferation of HER2-amplified BT474 cells exogenously expressing these mutations that render them resistant to trastuzumab. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: In trastuzumab-resistant BT474 H1047R breast cancer xenografts, NVP-BEZ235 inhibited PI3K signaling and had potent antitumor activity. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: In treated animals, there was complete inhibition of PI3K signaling in the skin at pharmacologically active doses, suggesting that skin may serve as surrogate tissue for pharmacodynamic studies. Relevant:
Query: Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. Document: In summary, NVP-BEZ235 inhibits the PI3K/mTOR axis and results in antiproliferative and antitumoral activity in cancer cells with both wild-type and mutated p110-alpha. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: This study describes comprehensive polling of transcription start and termination sites and analysis of previously unidentified full-length complementary DNAs derived from the mouse genome. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: We identify the 5' and 3' boundaries of 181,047 transcripts with extensive variation in transcripts arising from alternative promoter usage, splicing, and polyadenylation. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: There are 16,247 new mouse protein-coding transcripts, including 5154 encoding previously unidentified proteins. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Genomic mapping of the transcriptome reveals transcriptional forests, with overlapping transcription on both strands, separated by deserts in which few transcripts are observed. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: The data provide a comprehensive platform for the comparative analysis of mammalian transcriptional regulation in differentiation and development. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Proteinase-activated receptors (PARs) belong to a family of G protein-coupled receptors. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PARs are activated by a serine-dependent cleavage generating a tethered activating ligand. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2 was shown to be involved in inflammatory pathways. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: We investigated the in situ levels and modulation of PAR-2 in human normal and osteoarthritis (OA) cartilage/chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Furthermore, we evaluated the role of PAR-2 on the synthesis of the major catabolic factors in OA cartilage, including metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-13 and the inflammatory mediator cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), as well as the PAR-2-activated signalling pathways in OA chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2 expression was determined using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and protein levels by immunohistochemistry in normal and OA cartilage. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Protein modulation was investigated in OA cartilage explants treated with a specific PAR-2-activating peptide (PAR-2-AP), SLIGKV-NH2 (1 to 400 μM), interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β) (100 pg/mL), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) (5 ng/mL), transforming growth factor-beta-1 (TGF-β1) (10 ng/mL), or the signalling pathway inhibitors of p38 (SB202190), MEK1/2 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) (PD98059), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) (SN50), and PAR-2 levels were determined by immunohistochemistry. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Signalling pathways were analyzed on OA chondrocytes by Western blot using specific phospho-antibodies against extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2), p38, JNK (c-jun N-terminal kinase), and NF-κB in the presence or absence of the PAR-2-AP and/or IL-1β. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2-induced MMP and COX-2 levels in cartilage were determined by immunohistochemistry. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2 is produced by human chondrocytes and is significantly upregulated in OA compared with normal chondrocytes (p < 0.04 and p < 0.03, respectively). Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: The receptor levels were significantly upregulated by IL-1β (p < 0.006) and TNF-α (p < 0.002) as well as by the PAR-2-AP at 10, 100, and 400 μM (p < 0.02) and were downregulated by the inhibition of p38. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: After 48 hours of incubation, PAR-2 activation significantly induced MMP-1 and COX-2 starting at 10 μM (both p < 0.005) and MMP-13 at 100 μM (p < 0.02) as well as the phosphorylation of Erk1/2 and p38 within 5 minutes of incubation (p < 0.03). Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Though not statistically significant, IL-1β produced an additional effect on the activation of Erk1/2 and p38. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: This study documents, for the first time, functional consequences of PAR-2 activation in human OA cartilage, identifies p38 as the major signalling pathway regulating its synthesis, and demonstrates that specific PAR-2 activation induces Erk1/2 and p38 in OA chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: These results suggest PAR-2 as a potential new therapeutic target for the treatment of OA. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: 3'-Ends of almost all eukaryotic mRNAs are generated by endonucleolytic cleavage and addition of a poly(A) tail. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: In mammalian cells, the reaction depends on the sequence AAUAAA upstream of the cleavage site, a degenerate GU-rich sequence element downstream of the cleavage site and stimulatory sequences upstream of AAUAAA. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Six factors have been identified that carry out the two reactions. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: With a single exception, they have been purified to homogeneity and cDNAs for 11 subunits have been cloned. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Some of the cooperative RNA-protein and protein-protein interactions within the processing complex have been analyzed, but many details, including the identity of the endonuclease, remain unknown. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Several examples of regulated polyadenylation are being analyzed at the molecular level. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, sequences directing cleavage and polyadenylation are more degenerate than in metazoans, and a downstream element has not been identified. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: The list of processing factors may be complete now with approximately a dozen polypeptides, but their functions in the reaction are largely unknown. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: 3'-Processing is known to be coupled to transcription. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. Document: This connection is thought to involve interactions of processing factors with the mRNA cap as well as with RNA polymerase II. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: This study describes comprehensive polling of transcription start and termination sites and analysis of previously unidentified full-length complementary DNAs derived from the mouse genome. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: We identify the 5' and 3' boundaries of 181,047 transcripts with extensive variation in transcripts arising from alternative promoter usage, splicing, and polyadenylation. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: There are 16,247 new mouse protein-coding transcripts, including 5154 encoding previously unidentified proteins. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Genomic mapping of the transcriptome reveals transcriptional forests, with overlapping transcription on both strands, separated by deserts in which few transcripts are observed. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: The data provide a comprehensive platform for the comparative analysis of mammalian transcriptional regulation in differentiation and development. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Proteinase-activated receptors (PARs) belong to a family of G protein-coupled receptors. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PARs are activated by a serine-dependent cleavage generating a tethered activating ligand. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2 was shown to be involved in inflammatory pathways. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: We investigated the in situ levels and modulation of PAR-2 in human normal and osteoarthritis (OA) cartilage/chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Furthermore, we evaluated the role of PAR-2 on the synthesis of the major catabolic factors in OA cartilage, including metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-13 and the inflammatory mediator cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), as well as the PAR-2-activated signalling pathways in OA chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2 expression was determined using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and protein levels by immunohistochemistry in normal and OA cartilage. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Protein modulation was investigated in OA cartilage explants treated with a specific PAR-2-activating peptide (PAR-2-AP), SLIGKV-NH2 (1 to 400 μM), interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β) (100 pg/mL), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) (5 ng/mL), transforming growth factor-beta-1 (TGF-β1) (10 ng/mL), or the signalling pathway inhibitors of p38 (SB202190), MEK1/2 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) (PD98059), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) (SN50), and PAR-2 levels were determined by immunohistochemistry. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Signalling pathways were analyzed on OA chondrocytes by Western blot using specific phospho-antibodies against extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2), p38, JNK (c-jun N-terminal kinase), and NF-κB in the presence or absence of the PAR-2-AP and/or IL-1β. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2-induced MMP and COX-2 levels in cartilage were determined by immunohistochemistry. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: PAR-2 is produced by human chondrocytes and is significantly upregulated in OA compared with normal chondrocytes (p < 0.04 and p < 0.03, respectively). Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: The receptor levels were significantly upregulated by IL-1β (p < 0.006) and TNF-α (p < 0.002) as well as by the PAR-2-AP at 10, 100, and 400 μM (p < 0.02) and were downregulated by the inhibition of p38. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: After 48 hours of incubation, PAR-2 activation significantly induced MMP-1 and COX-2 starting at 10 μM (both p < 0.005) and MMP-13 at 100 μM (p < 0.02) as well as the phosphorylation of Erk1/2 and p38 within 5 minutes of incubation (p < 0.03). Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Though not statistically significant, IL-1β produced an additional effect on the activation of Erk1/2 and p38. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: This study documents, for the first time, functional consequences of PAR-2 activation in human OA cartilage, identifies p38 as the major signalling pathway regulating its synthesis, and demonstrates that specific PAR-2 activation induces Erk1/2 and p38 in OA chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: These results suggest PAR-2 as a potential new therapeutic target for the treatment of OA. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: 3'-Ends of almost all eukaryotic mRNAs are generated by endonucleolytic cleavage and addition of a poly(A) tail. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: In mammalian cells, the reaction depends on the sequence AAUAAA upstream of the cleavage site, a degenerate GU-rich sequence element downstream of the cleavage site and stimulatory sequences upstream of AAUAAA. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Six factors have been identified that carry out the two reactions. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: With a single exception, they have been purified to homogeneity and cDNAs for 11 subunits have been cloned. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Some of the cooperative RNA-protein and protein-protein interactions within the processing complex have been analyzed, but many details, including the identity of the endonuclease, remain unknown. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: Several examples of regulated polyadenylation are being analyzed at the molecular level. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, sequences directing cleavage and polyadenylation are more degenerate than in metazoans, and a downstream element has not been identified. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: The list of processing factors may be complete now with approximately a dozen polypeptides, but their functions in the reaction are largely unknown. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: 3'-Processing is known to be coupled to transcription. Relevant:
Query: N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. Document: This connection is thought to involve interactions of processing factors with the mRNA cap as well as with RNA polymerase II. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Background The catalytically active 66-kDa subunit of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase (RT) consists of DNA polymerase, connection, and ribonuclease H (RNase H) domains. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Almost all known RT inhibitor resistance mutations identified to date map to the polymerase domain of the enzyme. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: However, the connection and RNase H domains are not routinely analysed in clinical samples and none of the genotyping assays available for patient management sequence the entire RT coding region. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: The British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS (the Centre) genotypes clinical isolates up to codon 400 in RT, and our retrospective statistical analyses of the Centre’s database have identified an N348I mutation in the RT connection domain in treatment-experienced individuals. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: The objective of this multidisciplinary study was to establish the in vivo relevance of this mutation and its role in drug resistance. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Methods and Findings The prevalence of N348I in clinical isolates, the time taken for it to emerge under selective drug pressure, and its association with changes in viral load, specific drug treatment, and known drug resistance mutations was analysed from genotypes, viral loads, and treatment histories from the Centre’s database. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: N348I increased in prevalence from below 1% in 368 treatmentnao ¨ve individuals to 12.1% in 1,009 treatment-experienced patients (p ¼ 7.7 3 10 � 12 ). Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: N348I appeared early in therapy and was highly associated with thymidine analogue mutations (TAMs) M41L and T215Y/F (p , 0.001), the lamivudine resistance mutations M184V/I (p , 0.001), and non-nucleoside RTI (NNRTI) resistance mutations K103N and Y181C/I (p , 0.001). Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: The association with TAMs and NNRTI resistance mutations was consistent with the selection of N348I in patients treated with regimens that included both zidovudine and nevirapine (odds ratio 2.62, 95% confidence interval 1.43–4.81). Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: The appearance of N348I was associated with a significant increase in viral load (p , 0.001), which was as large as the viral load increases observed for any of the TAMs. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: However, this analysis did not account for the simultaneous selection of other RT or protease inhibitor resistance mutations on viral load. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: To delineate the role of this mutation in RT inhibitor resistance, N348I was introduced into HIV-1 molecular clones containing different genetic backbones. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: N348I decreased zidovudine susceptibility 2- to 4-fold in the context of wildtype HIV-1 or when combined with TAMs. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: N348I also decreased susceptibility to nevirapine (7.4fold) and efavirenz (2.5-fold) and significantly potentiated resistance to these drugs when combined with K103N. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Biochemical analyses of recombinant RT containing N348I provide supporting evidence for the role of this mutation in zidovudine and NNRTI resistance and give some insight into the molecular mechanism of resistance. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Conclusions Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Drug resistance-associated mutations in HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) can affect the balance between polymerase and ribonuclease H (RNase H) activities of the enzyme. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: We have recently demonstrated that the N348I mutation in the connection domain causes selective dissociation from RNase H-competent complexes, whereas the functional integrity of the polymerase-competent complex remains largely unaffected. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: N348I has been associated with resistance to the non-nucleoside RT inhibitor (NNRTI), nevirapine; however, a possible mechanism that links changes in RNase H activity to changes in NNRTI susceptibility remains to be established. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: To address this problem, we consider recent findings suggesting that NNRTIs may affect the orientation of RT on its nucleic acid substrate and increase RNase H activity. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Here we demonstrate that RNase H-mediated primer removal is indeed more efficient in the presence of NNRTIs; however, the N348I mutant enzyme is able to counteract this effect. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Efavirenz, a tight binding inhibitor, restricts the influence of the mutation. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: These findings provide strong evidence to suggest that N348I can thwart the inhibitory effects of nevirapine during initiation of (+)-strand DNA synthesis, which provides a novel mechanism for resistance. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: The data are in agreement with clinical data, which demonstrate a stronger effect of N348I on susceptibility to nevirapine as compared with efavirenz. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Adult T-cell leukaemia lymphoma (ATLL) is an aggressive disease caused by the human T-lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-I) with a short survival. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Responses to interferon alpha (IFN-alpha) and zidovudine (AZT) have been documented but not with long-term follow-up. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: We treated 15 ATLL patients with IFN and AZT. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Eleven patients had acute ATLL, two had lymphoma and two smouldering ATLL, with progression. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: The main features were: organomegaly (14), skin lesions (10), high white blood cell (WBC) count (11) and hypercalcaemia (9). Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Eleven patients had previously received chemotherapy and one had received an autograft. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: At the time of the study, seven patients had progressive disease and eight were in partial or complete clinical remission. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Responses (PR) lasting 2+ to 44+ months were seen in 67%; 26% did not respond (NR) and one patient was not evaluable. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Hypercalcaemia predicted a poor outcome but differences were not significant. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Eight of the 15 patients have died 3-41 months from diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Median survival for the 15 patients was 18 months. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: Survival of the NR ranged from 4 to 20 months; six PR patients are alive 8-82 months from diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: The differences in survival between NR (median: 6 months) and PR (55% of patients alive at 4 years) were statistically significant (P = 0.002). Relevant:
Query: N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). Document: In conclusion, IFN and AZT improves the outcome of ATLL patients and helps maintain responses. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: The Hippo pathway controls organ size and tissue homeostasis, with deregulation leading to cancer. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: The core Hippo components in mammals are composed of the upstream serine/threonine kinases Mst1/2, MAPK4Ks and Lats1/2. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Inactivation of these upstream kinases leads to dephosphorylation, stabilization, nuclear translocation and thus activation of the major functional transducers of the Hippo pathway, YAP and its paralogue TAZ. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: YAP/TAZ are transcription co-activators that regulate gene expression primarily through interaction with the TEA domain DNA-binding family of transcription factors (TEAD). Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: The current paradigm for regulation of this pathway centres on phosphorylation-dependent nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of YAP/TAZ through a complex network of upstream components. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: However, unlike other transcription factors, such as SMAD, NF-κB, NFAT and STAT, the regulation of TEAD nucleocytoplasmic shuttling has been largely overlooked. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: In the present study, we show that environmental stress promotes TEAD cytoplasmic translocation via p38 MAPK in a Hippo-independent manner. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Importantly, stress-induced TEAD inhibition predominates YAP-activating signals and selectively suppresses YAP-driven cancer cell growth. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Our data reveal a mechanism governing TEAD nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and show that TEAD localization is a critical determinant of Hippo signalling output. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Inflammation promotes regeneration of injured tissues through poorly understood mechanisms, some of which involve interleukin (IL)-6 family members, the expression of which is elevated in many diseases including inflammatory bowel diseases and colorectal cancer. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Here we show in mice and human cells that gp130, a co-receptor for IL-6 cytokines, triggers activation of YAP and Notch, transcriptional regulators that control tissue growth and regeneration, independently of the gp130 effector STAT3. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Through YAP and Notch, intestinal gp130 signalling stimulates epithelial cell proliferation, causes aberrant differentiation and confers resistance to mucosal erosion. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: gp130 associates with the related tyrosine kinases Src and Yes, which are activated on receptor engagement to phosphorylate YAP and induce its stabilization and nuclear translocation. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: This signalling module is strongly activated upon mucosal injury to promote healing and maintain barrier function. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: The YAP transcription coactivator has been implicated as an oncogene and is amplified in human cancers. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Recent studies have established that YAP is phosphorylated and inhibited by the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Here we demonstrate that the TEAD family transcription factors are essential in mediating YAP-dependent gene expression. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: TEAD is also required for YAP-induced cell growth, oncogenic transformation, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: CTGF is identified as a direct YAP target gene important for cell growth. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Moreover, the functional relationship between YAP and TEAD is conserved in Drosophila Yki (the YAP homolog) and Scalloped (the TEAD homolog). Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. Document: Our study reveals TEAD as a new component in the Hippo pathway playing essential roles in mediating biological functions of YAP. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: The YAP transcription coactivator has been implicated as an oncogene and is amplified in human cancers. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Recent studies have established that YAP is phosphorylated and inhibited by the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Here we demonstrate that the TEAD family transcription factors are essential in mediating YAP-dependent gene expression. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: TEAD is also required for YAP-induced cell growth, oncogenic transformation, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: CTGF is identified as a direct YAP target gene important for cell growth. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Moreover, the functional relationship between YAP and TEAD is conserved in Drosophila Yki (the YAP homolog) and Scalloped (the TEAD homolog). Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Our study reveals TEAD as a new component in the Hippo pathway playing essential roles in mediating biological functions of YAP. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: The Hippo pathway controls organ size and tissue homeostasis, with deregulation leading to cancer. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: The core Hippo components in mammals are composed of the upstream serine/threonine kinases Mst1/2, MAPK4Ks and Lats1/2. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Inactivation of these upstream kinases leads to dephosphorylation, stabilization, nuclear translocation and thus activation of the major functional transducers of the Hippo pathway, YAP and its paralogue TAZ. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: YAP/TAZ are transcription co-activators that regulate gene expression primarily through interaction with the TEA domain DNA-binding family of transcription factors (TEAD). Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: The current paradigm for regulation of this pathway centres on phosphorylation-dependent nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of YAP/TAZ through a complex network of upstream components. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: However, unlike other transcription factors, such as SMAD, NF-κB, NFAT and STAT, the regulation of TEAD nucleocytoplasmic shuttling has been largely overlooked. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: In the present study, we show that environmental stress promotes TEAD cytoplasmic translocation via p38 MAPK in a Hippo-independent manner. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Importantly, stress-induced TEAD inhibition predominates YAP-activating signals and selectively suppresses YAP-driven cancer cell growth. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Our data reveal a mechanism governing TEAD nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and show that TEAD localization is a critical determinant of Hippo signalling output. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: The Drosophila spaghetti squash ( sqh ) gene encodes the regulatory myosin light chain (RMLC) of nonmuscle myosin II. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Biochemical analysis of vertebrate nonmuscle and smooth muscle myosin II has established that phosphorylation of certain amino acids of the RMLC greatly increases the actin-dependent myosin ATPase and motor activity of myosin in vitro. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: We have assessed the in vivo importance of these sites, which in Drosophila correspond to serine-21 and threonine-20, by creating a series of transgenes in which these specific amino acids were altered. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: The phenotypes of the transgenes were examined in an otherwise null mutant background during oocyte development in Drosophila females. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Germ line cystoblasts entirely lacking a functional sqh gene show severe defects in proliferation and cytokinesis. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: The ring canals, cytoplasmic bridges linking the oocyte to the nurse cells in the egg chamber, are abnormal, suggesting a role of myosin II in their establishment or maintenance. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: In addition, numerous aggregates of myosin heavy chain accumulate in the sqh null cells. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Mutant sqh transgene sqh -A20, A21 in which both serine-21 and threonine-20 have been replaced by alanines behaves in most respects identically to the null allele in this system, with the exception that no heavy chain aggregates are found. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: In contrast, expression of sqh -A21, in which only the primary phosphorylation target serine-21 site is altered, partially restores functionality to germ line myosin II, allowing cystoblast division and oocyte development, albeit with some cytokinesis failure, defects in the rapid cytoplasmic transport from nurse cells to cytoplasm characteristic of late stage oogenesis, and some damaged ring canals. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Substituting a glutamate for the serine-21 (mutant sqh -E21) allows oogenesis to be completed with minimal defects, producing eggs that can develop normally to produce fertile adults. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Flies expressing sqh -A20, in which only the secondary phosphorylation site is absent, appear to be entirely wild type. Relevant:
Query: NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. Document: Taken together, this genetic evidence argues that phosphorylation at serine-21 is critical to RMLC function in activating myosin II in vivo, but that the function can be partially provided by phosphorylation at threonine-20. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Excitation-transcription coupling, linking stimulation at the cell surface to changes in nuclear gene expression, is conserved throughout eukaryotes. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: How closely related coexpressed transcription factors are differentially activated remains unclear. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Here, we show that two Ca2+-dependent transcription factor isoforms, NFAT1 and NFAT4, require distinct sub-cellular InsP3 and Ca2+ signals for physiologically sustained activation. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: NFAT1 is stimulated by sub-plasmalemmal Ca2+ microdomains, whereas NFAT4 additionally requires Ca2+ mobilization from the inner nuclear envelope by nuclear InsP3 receptors. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: NFAT1 is rephosphorylated (deactivated) more slowly than NFAT4 in both cytoplasm and nucleus, enabling a more prolonged activation phase. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Oscillations in cytoplasmic Ca2+, long considered the physiological form of Ca2+ signaling, play no role in activating either NFAT protein. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Instead, effective sustained physiological activation of NFAT4 is tightly linked to oscillations in nuclear Ca2+. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Our results show how gene expression can be controlled by coincident yet geographically distinct Ca2+ signals, generated by a freely diffusible InsP3 message. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Evidence has been accumulated that glioblastoma cells release and exploit glutamate for proliferation and migration by autocrine or paracrine loops through Ca2+-permeable AMPA-type glutamate receptors. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Here, we show that Ca2+ signaling mediated by AMPA receptor regulates the growth and motility of glioblastoma cells via activation of Akt. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Ca2+ supplied through Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptor phosphorylated Akt at Ser-473, thereby facilitating proliferation and mobility. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: A dominant-negative form of Akt inhibited cell proliferation and migration accelerated by overexpression of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptor. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: In contrast, introduction of a constitutively active form of Akt rescued tumor cells from apoptosis induced by the conversion of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptor to Ca2+-impermeable receptors by the delivery of GluR2 cDNA. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Therefore, Akt functions as downstream effectors for Ca2+-signaling mediated by AMPA receptor in glioblastoma cells. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: The activation of the glutamate-AMPA receptor-Akt pathway may contribute to the high degree of anaplasia and invasive growth of human glioblastoma. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: This novel pathway might give an alternative therapeutic target. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: BACKGROUND & AIMS Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric epithelial cell (GEC) apoptosis is a complex process that includes activation of the tumor suppressor p53. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: p53-mediated apoptosis involves p53 activation, bax transcription, and cytochrome c release from mitochondria. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease-1 (APE-1) regulates transcriptional activity of p53, and H pylori induce APE-1 expression in human GECs. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: H pylori infection increases intracellular calcium ion concentration [Ca2+]i of GECs, which induces APE-1 acetylation. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: We investigated the effects of H pylori infection and APE-1 acetylation on GEC apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: METHODS AGS cells (wild-type or with suppressed APE-1), KATO III cells, and cells isolated from gastric biopsy specimens were infected with H pylori. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: Effects were examined by immunoblotting, real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence microscopy, chromatin immunoprecipitation, mobility shift, DNA binding, and luciferase assays. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: RESULTS H pylori infection increased [Ca2+]i and acetylation of APE-1 in GECs, but the acetylation status of APE-1 did not affect the transcriptional activity of p53. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: In GECs, expression of a form of APE-1 that could not be acetylated increased total and mitochondrial levels of Bax and induced release of cytochrome c and fragmentation of DNA; expression of wild-type APE-1 reduced these apoptotic events. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: We identified a negative calcium response element in the human bax promoter and found that poly (adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase 1 recruited the acetylated APE-1/histone deacetylase-1 repressor complex to bax nCaRE. Relevant:
Query: NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. Document: CONCLUSIONS H pylori-mediated acetylation of APE-1 suppresses Bax expression; this prevents p53-mediated apoptosis when H pylori infect GECs. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: In an experiment to clarify the involvement of oxygen radicals in lung carcinogenesis induced by diesel exhaust particles (DEP), we found that there is a strong relation between lung tumor response and formation of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in lung DNA of mice administered DEP by repeated intratracheal instillation. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Repeated intratracheal instillation of DEP also induced the activity of cytochrome P-450 reductase in the lungs as a representative enzyme of superoxide generation, and two types of nitric oxide (NO) synthase, cNOS and iNOS, in the lungs. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: On the other hand, activities of CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) and Mn-SOD antioxidant enzymes were depressed by the instillation of DEP. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: These results suggest that generation of superoxide, hydroxyI radical, and nitric oxide are increased in epithelial cells in airways, and that the increased superoxide and nitric oxide react very easily to produce peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)). Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: The peroxynitrite also produce hydroxyI radical. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: The hydroxyl radical may play an important role in carcinogenesis by DEP. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Besides synthesizing nitric oxide (NO), purified neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) can produce superoxide (.O2-) at lower L-Arg concentrations. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: By using electron paramagnetic resonance spin-trapping techniques, we monitored NO and .O2- formation in nNOS-transfected human kidney 293 cells. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: In control transfected cells, the Ca2+ ionophore A23187 triggered NO generation but no .O2- was seen. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: With cells in L-Arg-free medium, we observed .O2- formation that increased as the cytosolic L-Arg levels decreased, while NO generation declined. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: .O2- formation was virtually abolished by the specific NOS blocker, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Nitrotyrosine, a specific nitration product of peroxynitrite, accumulated in L-Arg-depleted cells but not in control cells. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Activation by A23187 was cytotoxic to L-Arg-depleted, but not to control cells, with marked lactate dehydrogenase release. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: The cytotoxicity was largely prevented by either superoxide dismutase or L-NAME. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Thus, with reduced L-Arg availability NOS elicits cytotoxicity by generating .O2- and NO that interact to form the potent oxidant peroxynitrite. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Regulating arginine levels may provide a therapeutic approach to disorders involving .O2-/NO-mediated cellular injury. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: The phagocyte NADPH oxidase (NOX2) is critical for the bactericidal activity of phagocytic cells and plays a major role in innate immunity. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: We showed recently that NOX2 activity in mouse dendritic cells (DCs) prevents acidification of phagosomes, promoting antigen cross-presentation. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: In order to investigate the role of NOX2 in the regulation of the phagosomal pH in human DCs, we analyzed the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the phagosomal/endosomal pH in monocyte-derived DCs and macrophages (M(diameter)s) from healthy donors or patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: As expected, we found that human M(diameter)s acidify their phagosomes more efficiently than human DCs. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Accordingly, the expression of the vacuolar proton ATPase (V-H(+)-ATPase) was higher in M(diameter)s than in DCs. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Phagosomal ROS production, however, was also higher in M(diameter)s than in DCs, due to higher levels of gp91phox expression and recruitment to phagosomes. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: In contrast, in the absence of active NOX2, the phagosomal and endosomal pH decreased. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: Both in the presence of a NOX2 inhibitor and in DCs derived from patients with CGD, the cross-presentation of 2 model tumor antigens was impaired. Relevant:
Query: NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. Document: We conclude that NOX2 activity participates in the regulation of the phagosomal and endosomal pH in human DCs, and is required for efficient antigen cross-presentation. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Successful pregnancy requires coordination of an array of signals and factors from multiple tissues. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: One such element, liver receptor homolog-1 (Lrh-1), is an orphan nuclear receptor that regulates metabolism and hormone synthesis. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: It is strongly expressed in granulosa cells of ovarian follicles and in the corpus luteum of rodents and humans. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Germline ablation of Nr5a2 (also called Lrh-1), the gene coding for Lrh-1, in mice is embryonically lethal at gastrulation. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Depletion of Lrh-1 in the ovarian follicle shows that it regulates genes required for both steroid synthesis and ovulation. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: To study the effects of Lrh-1 on mouse gestation, we genetically disrupted its expression in the corpus luteum, resulting in luteal insufficiency. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Hormone replacement permitted embryo implantation but was followed by gestational failure with impaired endometrial decidualization, compromised placental formation, fetal growth retardation and fetal death. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Lrh-1 is also expressed in the mouse and human endometrium, and in a primary culture of human endometrial stromal cells, reduction of NR5A2 transcript abundance by RNA interference abrogated decidualization. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: These findings show that Lrh-1 is necessary for maintenance of the corpus luteum, for promotion of decidualization and for formation of the placenta. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: It therefore has multiple, indispensible roles in establishing and sustaining pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: BACKGROUND Endometrial cancer incidence is continuing to rise in the wake of the current ageing and obesity epidemics. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Much of the risk for endometrial cancer development is influenced by the environment and lifestyle. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Accumulating evidence suggests that the epigenome serves as the interface between the genome and the environment and that hypermethylation of stem cell polycomb group target genes is an epigenetic hallmark of cancer. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: The objective of this study was to determine the functional role of epigenetic factors in endometrial cancer development. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Epigenome-wide methylation analysis of >27,000 CpG sites in endometrial cancer tissue samples (n = 64) and control samples (n = 23) revealed that HAND2 (a gene encoding a transcription factor expressed in the endometrial stroma) is one of the most commonly hypermethylated and silenced genes in endometrial cancer. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: A novel integrative epigenome-transcriptome-interactome analysis further revealed that HAND2 is the hub of the most highly ranked differential methylation hotspot in endometrial cancer. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: These findings were validated using candidate gene methylation analysis in multiple clinical sample sets of tissue samples from a total of 272 additional women. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Increased HAND2 methylation was a feature of premalignant endometrial lesions and was seen to parallel a decrease in RNA and protein levels. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Furthermore, women with high endometrial HAND2 methylation in their premalignant lesions were less likely to respond to progesterone treatment. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: HAND2 methylation analysis of endometrial secretions collected using high vaginal swabs taken from women with postmenopausal bleeding specifically identified those patients with early stage endometrial cancer with both high sensitivity and high specificity (receiver operating characteristics area under the curve = 0.91 for stage 1A and 0.97 for higher than stage 1A). Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Finally, mice harbouring a Hand2 knock-out specifically in their endometrium were shown to develop precancerous endometrial lesions with increasing age, and these lesions also demonstrated a lack of PTEN expression. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: CONCLUSIONS HAND2 methylation is a common and crucial molecular alteration in endometrial cancer that could potentially be employed as a biomarker for early detection of endometrial cancer and as a predictor of treatment response. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: The true clinical utility of HAND2 DNA methylation, however, requires further validation in prospective studies. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: OBJECTIVES To investigate the expressions of survivin and Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and their possible correlations in the development of endometrial adenocarcinoma (EC). Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: We also looked at their association with classical prognostic factors in EC. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: To our knowledge, this is the first time survivin expression is investigated in terms of its relation to COX-2 in the developmental pathway of EC. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: METHODS Archived tissue samples of 50 EC, 30 endometrial hyperplasia and 20 proliferative endometrium were selected and immunohistochemically analyzed for survivin and COX-2 expression. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: RESULTS Both survivin and COX-2 were overexpressed in hyperplasia and endometrial adenocarcinoma cases compared to proliferative endometrium, which was statistically significant (p=0.01, p=0.02, respectively). Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Among EC cases, survivin and COX-2 were strongly positive in 38 (76%) and 30 (60%) patients, respectively. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Furthermore, we found survivin and COX-2 to be positively correlated, which was also statistically significant (p=0.0001, r=0.46). Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Neither survivin nor COX-2 expression was correlated with classical prognostic factors of endometrial carcinoma such as myometrial invasion, grade or lymph node metastasis (p>0.05). Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Neither COX-2 nor survivin had an impact on overall survival (p>0.05). Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: CONCLUSIONS Both survivin and COX-2 are overexpressed, and they seem to be early events in the occurrence of EC. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Moreover, protein products of these two genes are positively correlated. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: COX-2 and survivin might share a common molecular pathway or enhance each other's actions in the developmental pathway of EC. Relevant:
Query: NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. Document: Molecular basis of such a relationship should be further investigated in endometrial carcinogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Currently, major concerns about the safety and efficacy of RNA interference (RNAi)-based bone anabolic strategies still exist because of the lack of direct osteoblast-specific delivery systems for osteogenic siRNAs. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Here we screened the aptamer CH6 by cell-SELEX, specifically targeting both rat and human osteoblasts, and then we developed CH6 aptamer–functionalized lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) encapsulating osteogenic pleckstrin homology domain-containing family O member 1 (Plekho1) siRNA (CH6-LNPs-siRNA). Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Our results showed that CH6 facilitated in vitro osteoblast-selective uptake of Plekho1 siRNA, mainly via macropinocytosis, and boosted in vivo osteoblast-specific Plekho1 gene silencing, which promoted bone formation, improved bone microarchitecture, increased bone mass and enhanced mechanical properties in both osteopenic and healthy rodents. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: These results indicate that osteoblast-specific aptamer-functionalized LNPs could act as a new RNAi-based bone anabolic strategy, advancing the targeted delivery selectivity of osteogenic siRNAs from the tissue level to the cellular level. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Antigen targeting and adjuvancy schemes that respectively facilitate delivery of antigen to dendritic cells and elicit their activation have been explored in vaccine development. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Here we investigate whether nanoparticles can be used as a vaccine platform by targeting lymph node–residing dendritic cells via interstitial flow and activating these cells by in situ complement activation. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: After intradermal injection, interstitial flow transported ultra-small nanoparticles (25 nm) highly efficiently into lymphatic capillaries and their draining lymph nodes, targeting half of the lymph node–residing dendritic cells, whereas 100-nm nanoparticles were only 10% as efficient. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: The surface chemistry of these nanoparticles activated the complement cascade, generating a danger signal in situ and potently activating dendritic cells. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Using nanoparticles conjugated to the model antigen ovalbumin, we demonstrate generation of humoral and cellular immunity in mice in a size- and complement-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: A multitude of nanoparticles, such as titanium oxide (TiO2), zinc oxide, aluminum oxide, gold oxide, silver oxide, iron oxide, and silica oxide, are found in many chemical, cosmetic, pharmaceutical, and electronic products. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Recently, SiO2 nanoparticles were shown to have an inert toxicity profile and no association with an irreversible toxicological change in animal models. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Hence, exposure to SiO2 nanoparticles is on the increase. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: SiO2 nanoparticles are routinely used in numerous materials, from strengthening filler for concrete and other construction composites, to nontoxic platforms for biomedical application, such as drug delivery and theragnostics. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: On the other hand, recent in vitro experiments indicated that SiO2 nanoparticles were cytotoxic. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Therefore, we investigated these nanoparticles to identify potentially toxic pathways by analyzing the adsorbed protein corona on the surface of SiO2 nanoparticles in the blood and brain of the rat. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Four types of SiO2 nanoparticles were chosen for investigation, and the protein corona of each type was analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry technology. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: In total, 115 and 48 plasma proteins from the rat were identified as being bound to negatively charged 20 nm and 100 nm SiO2 nanoparticles, respectively, and 50 and 36 proteins were found for 20 nm and 100 nm arginine-coated SiO2 nanoparticles, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Higher numbers of proteins were adsorbed onto the 20 nm sized SiO2 nanoparticles than onto the 100 nm sized nanoparticles regardless of charge. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: When proteins were compared between the two charges, higher numbers of proteins were found for arginine-coated positively charged SiO2 nanoparticles than for the negatively charged nanoparticles. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: The proteins identified as bound in the corona from SiO2 nanoparticles were further analyzed with ClueGO, a Cytoscape plugin used in protein ontology and for identifying biological interaction pathways. Relevant:
Query: Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. Document: Proteins bound on the surface of nanoparticles may affect functional and conformational properties and distributions in complicated biological processes. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Small-vessel vasculitis (SVV) is a chronic autoinflammatory condition linked to antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies (ANCAs). Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Here we show that chromatin fibers, so-called neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils and contain the targeted autoantigens proteinase-3 (PR3) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Deposition of NETs in inflamed kidneys and circulating MPO-DNA complexes suggest that NET formation triggers vasculitis and promotes the autoimmune response against neutrophil components in individuals with SVV. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) represent extracellular structures able to bind and kill microorganisms. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: It is believed that they are generated by neutrophils undergoing cell death, allowing these dying or dead cells to kill microbes. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: We show that, following priming with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and subsequent short-term toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) or complement factor 5a (C5a) receptor stimulation, viable neutrophils are able to generate NETs. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Strikingly, NETs formed by living cells contain mitochondrial, but no nuclear, DNA. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Pharmacological or genetic approaches to block reactive oxygen species (ROS) production suggested that NET formation is ROS dependent. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Moreover, neutrophil populations stimulated with GM-CSF and C5a showed increased survival compared with resting neutrophils, which did not generate NETs. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: In conclusion, mitochondrial DNA release by neutrophils and NET formation do not require neutrophil death and do also not limit the lifespan of these cells. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Uncontrolled proteolysis by neutrophil serine proteases (NSPs) in lung secretions is a hallmark of cystic fibrosis (CF). Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: We have shown that the active neutrophil elastase, protease 3, and cathepsin G in CF sputum resist inhibition in part by exogenous protease inhibitors. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: This resistance may be due to their binding to neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) secreted by the activated neutrophils in CF sputum and to genomic DNA released from senescent and dead neutrophils. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Treating CF sputum with DNase dramatically increases its elastase activity, which can then be stoichiometrically inhibited by exogenous elastase inhibitors. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: However, DNase treatment does not increase the activities of protease 3 and cathepsin G, indicating their different distribution and/or binding in CF sputum. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Purified blood neutrophils secrete NETs when stimulated by the opportunistic CF bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: The activities of the three proteases were unchanged in these conditions, but subsequent DNase treatment produced a dramatic increase in all three proteolytic activities. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Neutrophils activated with a calcium ionophore did not secrete NETs but released huge amounts of active proteases whose activities were not modified by DNase. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: We conclude that NETs are reservoirs of active proteases that protect them from inhibition and maintain them in a rapidly mobilizable status. Relevant:
Query: Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. Document: Combining the effects of protease inhibitors with that of DNA-degrading agents could counter the deleterious proteolytic effects of NSPs in CF lung secretions. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Finding new treatment-shortening antibiotics to improve cure rates and curb the alarming emergence of drug resistance is the major objective of tuberculosis (TB) drug development. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Using a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry imaging suite in a biosafety containment facility, we show that the key sterilizing drugs rifampicin and pyrazinamide efficiently penetrate the sites of TB infection in lung lesions. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Rifampicin even accumulates in necrotic caseum, a critical lesion site where persisting tubercle bacilli reside. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: In contrast, moxifloxacin, which is active in vitro against a subpopulation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis that persists in specific niches under drug pressure and has achieved treatment shortening in mice, does not diffuse well in caseum, concordant with its failure to shorten therapy in recent clinical trials. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: We suggest that such differential spatial distribution and kinetics of accumulation in lesions may create temporal and spatial windows of monotherapy in specific niches, allowing the gradual development of multidrug-resistant TB. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: We propose an alternative working model to prioritize new antibiotic regimens based on quantitative and spatial distribution of TB drugs in the major lesion types found in human lungs. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: The finding that lesion penetration may contribute to treatment outcome has wide implications for TB. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Tuberculosis (TB) is more prevalent in the world today than at any other time in human history. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the pathogen responsible for TB, uses diverse strategies to survive in a variety of host lesions and to evade immune surveillance. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: A key question is how robust are our approaches to discovering new TB drugs, and what measures could be taken to reduce the long and protracted clinical development of new drugs. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: The emergence of multi-drug-resistant strains of M. tuberculosis makes the discovery of new molecular scaffolds a priority, and the current situation even necessitates the re-engineering and repositioning of some old drug families to achieve effective control. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Whatever the strategy used, success will depend largely on our proper understanding of the complex interactions between the pathogen and its human host. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: In this review, we discuss innovations in TB drug discovery and evolving strategies to bring newer agents more quickly to patients. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: BACKGROUND Under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme of India, patients with new smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis are treated with a thrice-weekly regimen of antitubercular drugs (2H(3)R(3)Z(3)E(3)/4H(3)R(3) [H isoniazid, R rifampicin, Z pyrazinamide and E ethambutol]) for 6 months. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: We conducted a retrospective analysis of the efficacy andtolerability of this regimen under clinical trial conditions in HIV-negative patients with newly diagnosed smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: METHODS We retrospectively analysed the data on patients assigned to the control regimen (2H (3)R(3)Z(3)E(3)/4H(3)R(3)) in two clinical trials during 2001-06 at the National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai, India. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: RESULTS Of the 268 patients treated with this regimen, data for efficacy analysis were available for 249. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: At the end of treatment, of 249 patients, 238 (96%) had a favourable status. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Treatment failure occurred in the remaining 11: 7 in whom the organisms were initially drug-susceptible and 4 with initial drug resistance. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Of the 238 patients who had a favourable status at the end of treatment, 14 (6%) had recurrence of tuberculosis during the following 24 months. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: In the intention-to-treat analysis, 245 (94%) of 262 patients had a favourable status at the end of treatment. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Of the 28 patients with initial drug resistance, 24 (86%) had a favourable outcome. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Only 4 of these 24 patients were found to have recurrence of tuberculosis in 2 years of follow-up. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Among the 221 patients initially infected with drug-susceptible organisms, drug resistance did not develop in any of the 7 patients in whom the treatment failed or the 10 who had recurrence of tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Further, 5 of the 7 patients in whom the treatment failed continued to excrete drug-susceptible bacilli at 6 months. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Adverse drug reactions were observed in 38 (14%) of the 262 patients. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: Only 3 (1.1%) needed a modification in the treatment. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: CONCLUSION This thrice-weekly 6-month regimen of antitubercular drugs, when administered under full supervision, is associated with a high rate of favourable treatment outcomes in HIV-negative patients with newly diagnosed sputum smearpositive pulmonary tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. Document: There are few adverse drug reactions in these patients. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The helmet is a new interface with the potential of increasing the success rate of non-invasive ventilation by improving tolerance. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: To perform a physiological comparison between the helmet and the conventional facial mask in delivering non-invasive ventilation in hypercapnic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Prospective, controlled, randomized study with cross-over design. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: In 10 patients we evaluated gas exchange, inspiratory effort, patient–ventilator synchrony and patient tolerance after 30 min of non-invasive ventilation delivered either by helmet or facial mask; both trials were preceded by periods of spontaneous unassisted breathing. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Arterial blood gases, inspiratory effort, duration of diaphragm contraction and ventilator assistance, effort-to-support delays (at the beginning and at the end of inspiration), number of ineffective efforts, and patient comfort. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Non-invasive ventilation improved gas exchange (p< 0.05) and inspiratory effort (p< 0.01) with both interfaces. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The helmet, however, was less efficient than the mask in reducing inspiratory effort (p< 0.05) and worsened the patient–ventilator synchrony, as indicated by the longer delays to trigger on (p< 0.05) and cycle off (p< 0.05) the mechanical assistance and by the number of ineffective efforts (p< 0.005). Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Patient comfort was no different with the two interfaces. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Helmet and facial mask were equally tolerated and both were effective in ameliorating gas exchange and decreasing inspiratory effort. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The helmet, however, was less efficient in decreasing inspiratory effort and worsened the patient–ventilator interaction. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the cost effectiveness of standard treatment with and without the addition of ward based non-invasive ventilation in patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: DESIGN Incremental cost effectiveness analysis of a randomised controlled trial. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: SETTING Medical wards in 14 hospitals in the United Kingdom. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: PARTICIPANTS The trial comprised 236 patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and mild to moderate acidosis (pH 7.25-7.35) secondary to respiratory failure. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The economic analysis compared the costs of treatment that these patients received after randomisation. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Incremental cost per in-hospital death. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: RESULTS 24/118 died in the group receiving standard treatment and 12/118 in the group receiving non-invasive ventilation (P=0.05). Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Allocation to the group receiving non-invasive ventilation was associated with a reduction in costs of 49362 pounds sterling (78741 dollars; 73109 euros), mainly through reduced use of intensive care units. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The incremental cost effectiveness ratio was -645 pounds sterling per death avoided (95% confidence interval -2310 pounds sterling to 386 pounds sterling), indicating a dominant (more effective and less costly) strategy. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Modelling of these data indicates that a typical UK hospital providing a non-invasive ventilation service will avoid six deaths and three to nine admissions to intensive care units per year, with an associated cost reduction of 12000-53000 pounds sterling per year. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: CONCLUSIONS Non-invasive ventilation is a highly cost effective treatment that both reduced total costs and improved mortality in hospital. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: OBJECTIVES The original objective was to determine whether the use of bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) ventilation would reduce the need for endotracheal intubation, the length of hospital stay, and hospital charges in patients with status asthmaticus. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The development of physician treatment bias made patient enrollment difficult. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The article subsequently describes the use of Bayesian statistics to explain study results when this bias occurs. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: METHODS This study was a prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial conducted over a 34.5-month period at an urban university hospital with an emergency department census of 94,000 annual visits. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Patients remaining in status asthmaticus after initial standard treatment with inhaled beta-agonists and steroids were randomized to receive BiPAP ventilation plus standard treatment versus standard treatment alone (non-BiPAP), with intubation for either group as needed. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Patients with concurrent cardiac or other pulmonary diseases were excluded. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: The primary outcome measures were endotracheal intubation rate and length of hospital stay. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Secondary outcome measures included vital signs (respiratory rate, pulse rate, blood pressure), changes in expiratory peak flow, changes in pulse oximetry values, and hospital charges. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Data were analyzed using Fisher's exact test, Mann-Whitney tests, and Bayesian statistics. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: For patients enrolled in the study more than once, data analysis was performed on the first enrollment only. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: RESULTS Nineteen patients were enrolled in the BiPAP group and 16 patients in the non-BiPAP group. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Patients were frequently enrolled more than once and the data from the subsequent enrollments were excluded from the analysis. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: A marked decrease in enrollment, due to physician treatment bias, led to a premature termination of the study. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Demographics showed that the groups were similar in age, sex, initial peak flow rate, and arterial blood gas measurements. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: There was a 7.3% increase (95% CI = -22 to +45) in the intubation rate in the non-BiPAP group (n = 2) compared with that for the BiPAP group (n = 1). Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: No significant difference was seen in length of hospital stay or hospital charges, although there was a favorable trend toward the BiPAP group. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Complications encountered in the BiPAP group included one patient with discomfort associated with the nasal BiPAP mask. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Bayesian analysis demonstrated that in order for the collected data to be convincing at the 95% confidence level, the prior conviction among treating physicians that BiPAP was a successful treatment modality would have had to be 98.9%. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this study, BiPAP appeared to have no deleterious effects in patients with status asthmaticus, with a trend toward decreased endotracheal intubation rate, decreased length of hospital stay, and decreased hospital charges. Relevant:
Query: Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. Document: Although further study with more patients is needed to determine the clinical and statistical significance of this intervention, ethical concerns regarding withholding BiPAP treatment from the patients in the control group forced a premature termination of the study in the authors' institution. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: The lncRNA H19 has been recently shown to be upregulated and play important roles in gastric cancer tumorigenesis. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: However, the precise molecular mechanism of H19 and its mature product miR-675 in the carcinogenesis of gastric cancer remains unclear. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: In this study, we found that miR-675 was positively expressed with H19 and was a pivotal mediator in H19-induced gastric cancer cell growth promotion. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Subsequently, the tumor suppressor Runt Domain Transcription Factor1 (RUNX1) was confirmed to be a direct target of miR-675 using a luciferase reporter assay and Western blotting analyses. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: A series of rescue assays indicated that RUNX1 mediated H19/miR-67-induced gastric cancer cell phenotypic changes. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Moreover, the inverse relationship between the expression of RUNX1 and H19/miR-675 was also revealed in gastric cancer tissues and gastric cancer cell lines. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Taken together, our study demonstrated that the novel pathway H19/miR-675/RUNX1 regulates gastric cancer development and may serve as a potential target for gastric cancer therapy. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Stromal fibroblasts can contribute to tumor invasion through the release of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Population studies have suggested that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in MMP genes influence levels of expression and may be associated with breast cancer risk and with disease progression. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: This study directly examined the impact of MMP SNP genotype on the ability of host fibroblasts to promote tumor cell invasion. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Primary breast fibroblasts were isolated from patients with (n = 13) or without (n = 19) breast cancer, and their ability to promote breast cancer cell invasion was measured in in vitro invasion assays. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Fibroblast invasion-promoting capacity (IPC) was analyzed in relation to donor type (tumor or non-tumor patient), MMP-1, MMP-3, and MMP-9 SNP genotype and MMP activity using independent samples t test and analysis of variance. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: All statistical tests were two-sided. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Tumor-derived fibroblasts promoted higher levels of invasion than normal fibroblasts (p = 0.041). Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: When IPC was related to genotype, higher levels of IPC were generated by tumor fibroblasts with the high-expressing MMP-3 5A/5A genotype compared with the 5A/6A and 6A/6A genotypes (p = 0.05 and 0.07, respectively), and this was associated with enhanced MMP-3 release. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: The functional importance of MMP-3 was demonstrated by enhanced invasion in the presence of recombinant MMP-3, whereas reduction occurred in the presence of a specific MMP-3 inhibitor. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: An inverse relationship was demonstrated between fibroblast IPC and the high-expressing MMP-1 genotype (p = 0.031), but no relationship was seen with MMP-9 SNP status. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: In contrast, normal fibroblasts showed no variation in IPC in relation to MMP genotype, with MMP-3 5A/5A fibroblasts exhibiting significantly lower levels of IPC than their tumor-derived counterparts (p = 0.04). Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: This study has shown that tumor-derived fibroblasts exhibit higher levels of IPC than normal fibroblasts and that the MMP-3 5A/5A genotype contributes to this through enhanced MMP-3 release. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Despite a high-expressing genotype, normal fibroblasts do not exhibit higher IPC or enhanced MMP release. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: This suggests that more complex changes occur in tumor-derived fibroblasts, enabling full expression of the MMP SNP genotype and these possibly are epigenetic in nature. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: The results do suggest that, in women with breast cancer, a high-expressing MMP-3 genotype may promote tumor progression more effectively. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: The TLX1 and TLX3 transcription factor oncogenes have a key role in the pathogenesis of T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Here we used reverse engineering of global transcriptional networks to decipher the oncogenic regulatory circuit controlled by TLX1 and TLX3. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: This systems biology analysis defined T cell leukemia homeobox 1 (TLX1) and TLX3 as master regulators of an oncogenic transcriptional circuit governing T-ALL. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Notably, a network structure analysis of this hierarchical network identified RUNX1 as a key mediator of the T-ALL induced by TLX1 and TLX3 and predicted a tumor-suppressor role for RUNX1 in T cell transformation. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Consistent with these results, we identified recurrent somatic loss-of-function mutations in RUNX1 in human T-ALL. Relevant:
Query: Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. Document: Overall, these results place TLX1 and TLX3 at the top of an oncogenic transcriptional network controlling leukemia development, show the power of network analyses to identify key elements in the regulatory circuits governing human cancer and identify RUNX1 as a tumor-suppressor gene in T-ALL. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Extreme obesity is associated with severe psychiatric and somatic comorbidity and impairment of psychosocial functioning. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment not only with regard to weight loss but also with obesity-associated illnesses. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Health-related psychological and psychosocial variables have been increasingly considered as important outcome variables of bariatric surgery. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: However, the long-term impact of bariatric surgery on psychological and psychosocial functioning is largely unclear. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between the course of weight and psychological variables including depression, anxiety, health-related quality of life (HRQOL), and self-esteem up to 4 years after obesity surgery. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: By standardized questionnaires prior to (T1) and 1 year (T2), 2 years (T3), and 4 years (T4) after surgery, 148 patients (47 males (31.8 %), 101 females (68.2 %), mean age 38.8 ± 10.2 years) were assessed. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: On average, participants lost 24.6 % of their initial weight 1 year after surgery, 25.1 % after 2 years, and 22.3 % after 4 years. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Statistical analysis revealed significant improvements in depressive symptoms, physical dimension of quality of life, and self-esteem with peak improvements 1 year after surgery. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: These improvements were largely maintained. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Significant correlations between weight loss and improvements in depression, physical aspects of HRQOL (T2, T3, and T4), and self-esteem (T3) were observed. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Corresponding to the considerable weight loss after bariatric surgery, important aspects of mental health improved significantly during the 4-year follow-up period. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: However, parallel to weight regain, psychological improvements showed a slow but not significant decline over time. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: The proteasome is a multicatalytic enzyme complex responsible for the degradation of both normal and damaged proteins. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: An age-related decline in proteasomal activity has been implicated in various age-related pathologies. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: The relevance of decreased proteasomal activity to aging and age-related diseases remains unclear, however, because suitable animal models are not available. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: In the present study, we established a transgenic (Tg) mouse model with decreased proteasomal chymotrypsin-like activity. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Tg mice exhibited a shortened life span and developed age-related phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: In Tg mice, polyubiquitinated and oxidized proteins accumulated, and the expression levels of cellular proteins such as Bcl-xL and RNase L were altered. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: When Tg mice were fed a high-fat diet, they developed more pronounced obesity and hepatic steatosis than did wild-type mice. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Consistent with its role in lipid droplet formation, the expression of adipose differentiation-related protein (ADRP) was elevated in the livers of Tg mice. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Of note, obesity and hepatic steatosis induced by a high-fat diet were more pronounced in aged than in young wild-type mice, and aged wild-type mice had elevated levels of ADRP, suggesting that the metabolic abnormalities present in Tg mice mimic those in aged mice. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Our results provide the first in vivo evidence that decreased proteasomal chymotrypsin-like activity affects longevity and aggravates age-related metabolic disorders, such as obesity and hepatic steatosis. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: IMPORTANCE Bariatric surgery is associated with sustained weight loss and improved physical health status for severely obese individuals. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Mental health conditions may be common among patients seeking bariatric surgery; however, the prevalence of these conditions and whether they are associated with postoperative outcomes remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the prevalence of mental health conditions among bariatric surgery candidates and recipients, to evaluate the association between preoperative mental health conditions and health outcomes following bariatric surgery, and to evaluate the association between surgery and the clinical course of mental health conditions. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: DATA SOURCES We searched PubMed, MEDLINE on OVID, and PsycINFO for studies published between January 1988 and November 2015. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Study quality was assessed using an adapted tool for risk of bias; quality of evidence was rated based on GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) criteria. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: FINDINGS We identified 68 publications meeting inclusion criteria: 59 reporting the prevalence of preoperative mental health conditions (65,363 patients) and 27 reporting associations between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative outcomes (50,182 patients). Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Among patients seeking and undergoing bariatric surgery, the most common mental health conditions, based on random-effects estimates of prevalence, were depression (19% [95% CI, 14%-25%]) and binge eating disorder (17% [95% CI, 13%-21%]). Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: There was conflicting evidence regarding the association between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative weight loss. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Neither depression nor binge eating disorder was consistently associated with differences in weight outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Bariatric surgery was, however, consistently associated with postoperative decreases in the prevalence of depression (7 studies; 8%-74% decrease) and the severity of depressive symptoms (6 studies; 40%-70% decrease). Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Mental health conditions are common among bariatric surgery patients-in particular, depression and binge eating disorder. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: There is inconsistent evidence regarding the association between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative weight loss. Relevant:
Query: Obesity decreases life quality. Document: Moderate-quality evidence supports an association between bariatric surgery and lower rates of depression postoperatively. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Cell size and number of parametrial fat pads were determined in Swiss mice made obese by means of a high-fat diet (40% lard w/w) given ad lib. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: This diet and a control were introduced to two groups of mothers during gestation and lactation, and sucklings were given the same diets as their mothers at weaning and throughout life.2-wk old mice suckled by mothers fed a high-fat diet have fatter parametrial pads. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: This difference is due solely to an increase in fat cell size. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: After weaning, until the 18th wk, the two groups differed with a striking fat cell enlargement seen in the obese group. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Later on, whereas cell numbers did not change in the control group, a constant and uninterrupted increase in number is shown in those of obese mice until the 52nd wk. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Hyperplasia was observed only in adults. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: When the high-fat diet was introduced to adult rats it also triggered an increase in fat cell number. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Three sites of fat pads were compared in both sexes at 32 wk of age. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: All sites increased in weight in the high-fat fed group. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: This was due to: hyperplasia in perirenal site, hypertrophy in epididymal and subcutaneous sites, and hyperplasia plus hypertrophy in the parametrial one. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: So, in each sex, adipose sites in the obese mice reacted to the diet in a site-specific way. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: It was concluded that the level of fat in a diet is involved in both formation and maturation of new fat cells and in the regulation of fat cell lipid content. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: The two processes may be separated or may act together according to the adipose tissue site. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: The gut microbiota has been proposed as an environmental factor that affects the development of metabolic and inflammatory diseases in mammals. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Recent reports indicate that gut bacteria-derived lipopolysaccharide (LPS) can initiate obesity and insulin resistance in mice; however, the molecular interactions responsible for microbial regulation of host metabolism and mediators of inflammation have not been studied in detail. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Hepatic serum amyloid A (SAA) proteins are markers and proposed mediators of inflammation that exhibit increased levels in serum of insulin-resistant mice. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Adipose tissue-derived SAA3 displays monocyte chemotactic activity and may play a role in metabolic inflammation associated with obesity and insulin resistance. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: To investigate a potential mechanistic link between the intestinal microbiota and induction of proinflammatory host factors, we performed molecular analyses of germ-free, conventionally raised and genetically modified Myd88-/- mouse models. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: SAA3 expression was determined to be significantly augmented in adipose (9.9+/-1.9-fold; P<0.001) and colonic tissue (7.0+/-2.3-fold; P<0.05) by the presence of intestinal microbes. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: In the colon, we provided evidence that SAA3 is partially regulated through the Toll-like receptor (TLR)/MyD88/NF-kappaB signaling axis. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: We identified epithelial cells and macrophages as cellular sources of SAA3 in the colon and found that colonic epithelial expression of SAA3 may be part of an NF-kappaB-dependent response to LPS from gut bacteria. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: In vitro experiments showed that LPS treatments of both epithelial cells and macrophages induced SAA3 expression (27.1+/-2.5-fold vs. 1.6+/-0.1-fold, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Our data suggest that LPS, and potentially other products of the indigenous gut microbiota, might elevate cytokine expression in tissues and thus exacerbate chronic low-grade inflammation observed in obesity. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Environmental factors and host genetics interact to control the gut microbiota, which may have a role in the development of obesity and insulin resistance. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: TLR2-deficient mice, under germ-free conditions, are protected from diet-induced insulin resistance. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: It is possible that the presence of gut microbiota could reverse the phenotype of an animal, inducing insulin resistance in an animal genetically determined to have increased insulin sensitivity, such as the TLR2 KO mice. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: In the present study, we investigated the influence of gut microbiota on metabolic parameters, glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and signaling of TLR2-deficient mice. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: We investigated the gut microbiota (by metagenomics), the metabolic characteristics, and insulin signaling in TLR2 knockout (KO) mice in a non-germ free facility. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Results showed that the loss of TLR2 in conventionalized mice results in a phenotype reminiscent of metabolic syndrome, characterized by differences in the gut microbiota, with a 3-fold increase in Firmicutes and a slight increase in Bacteroidetes compared with controls. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: These changes in gut microbiota were accompanied by an increase in LPS absorption, subclinical inflammation, insulin resistance, glucose intolerance, and later, obesity. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: In addition, this sequence of events was reproduced in WT mice by microbiota transplantation and was also reversed by antibiotics. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: At the molecular level the mechanism was unique, with activation of TLR4 associated with ER stress and JNK activation, but no activation of the IKKβ-IκB-NFκB pathway. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Our data also showed that in TLR2 KO mice there was a reduction in regulatory T cell in visceral fat, suggesting that this modulation may also contribute to the insulin resistance of these animals. Relevant:
Query: Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. Document: Our results emphasize the role of microbiota in the complex network of molecular and cellular interactions that link genotype to phenotype and have potential implications for common human disorders involving obesity, diabetes, and even other immunological disorders. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Large noncoding RNAs are emerging as an important component in cellular regulation. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Considerable evidence indicates that these transcripts act directly as functional RNAs rather than through an encoded protein product. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: However, a recent study of ribosome occupancy reported that many large intergenic ncRNAs (lincRNAs) are bound by ribosomes, raising the possibility that they are translated into proteins. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Here, we show that classical noncoding RNAs and 5' UTRs show the same ribosome occupancy as lincRNAs, demonstrating that ribosome occupancy alone is not sufficient to classify transcripts as coding or noncoding. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Instead, we define a metric based on the known property of translation whereby translating ribosomes are released upon encountering a bona fide stop codon. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: We show that this metric accurately discriminates between protein-coding transcripts and all classes of known noncoding transcripts, including lincRNAs. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Taken together, these results argue that the large majority of lincRNAs do not function through encoded proteins. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Protein synthesis in all organisms is catalyzed by ribosomes. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: In comparison to their prokaryotic counterparts, eukaryotic ribosomes are considerably larger and are subject to more complex regulation. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: The large ribosomal subunit (60S) catalyzes peptide bond formation and contains the nascent polypeptide exit tunnel. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: We present the structure of the 60S ribosomal subunit from Tetrahymena thermophila in complex with eukaryotic initiation factor 6 (eIF6), cocrystallized with the antibiotic cycloheximide (a eukaryotic-specific inhibitor of protein synthesis), at a resolution of 3.5 angstroms. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: The structure illustrates the complex functional architecture of the eukaryotic 60S subunit, which comprises an intricate network of interactions between eukaryotic-specific ribosomal protein features and RNA expansion segments. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: It reveals the roles of eukaryotic ribosomal protein elements in the stabilization of the active site and the extent of eukaryotic-specific differences in other functional regions of the subunit. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Furthermore, it elucidates the molecular basis of the interaction with eIF6 and provides a structural framework for further studies of ribosome-associated diseases and the role of the 60S subunit in the initiation of protein synthesis. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: We have used recombinant or synthetic alphaIIb and beta3 integrin cytoplasmic peptides to study their in vitro complexation and ligand binding capacity by surface plasmon resonance. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: alpha.beta heterodimerization occurred in a 1:1 stoichiometry with a weak KD in the micromolar range. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Divalent cations were not required for this association but stabilized the alpha.beta complex by decreasing the dissociation rate. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: alpha.beta complexation was impaired by the R995A substitution or the KVGFFKR deletion in alphaIIb but not by the beta3 S752P mutation. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Recombinant calcium- and integrin-binding protein (CIB), an alphaIIb-specific ligand, bound to the alphaIIb cytoplasmic peptide in a Ca2+- or Mn2+-independent, one-to-one reaction with a KD value of 12 microM. In contrast, in vitro liquid phase binding of CIB to intact alphaIIbbeta3 occurred preferentially with Mn2+-activated alphaIIbbeta3 conformers, as demonstrated by enhanced coimmunoprecipitation of CIB with PAC-1-captured Mn2+-activated alphaIIbbeta3, suggesting that Mn2+ activation of intact alphaIIbbeta3 induces the exposure of a CIB-binding site, spontaneously exposed by the free alphaIIb peptide. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. Document: Since CIB did not stimulate PAC-1 binding to inactive alphaIIbbeta3 nor prevented activated alphaIIbbeta3 occupancy by PAC-1, we conclude that CIB does not regulate alphaIIbbeta3 inside-out signaling, but rather is involved in an alphaIIbbeta3 post-receptor occupancy event. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Large noncoding RNAs are emerging as an important component in cellular regulation. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Considerable evidence indicates that these transcripts act directly as functional RNAs rather than through an encoded protein product. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: However, a recent study of ribosome occupancy reported that many large intergenic ncRNAs (lincRNAs) are bound by ribosomes, raising the possibility that they are translated into proteins. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Here, we show that classical noncoding RNAs and 5' UTRs show the same ribosome occupancy as lincRNAs, demonstrating that ribosome occupancy alone is not sufficient to classify transcripts as coding or noncoding. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Instead, we define a metric based on the known property of translation whereby translating ribosomes are released upon encountering a bona fide stop codon. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We show that this metric accurately discriminates between protein-coding transcripts and all classes of known noncoding transcripts, including lincRNAs. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Taken together, these results argue that the large majority of lincRNAs do not function through encoded proteins. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: BACKGROUND Results of the few cohort studies from countries with low incomes or middle incomes suggest a lower incidence of dementia than in high-income countries. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We assessed incidence of dementia according to criteria from the 10/66 Dementia Research Group and Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) IV, the effect of dementia at baseline on mortality, and the independent effects of age, sex, socioeconomic position, and indicators of cognitive reserve. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: METHODS We did a population-based cohort study of all people aged 65 years and older living in urban sites in Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and Venezuela, and rural and urban sites in Peru, Mexico, and China, with ascertainment of incident 10/66 and DSM-IV dementia 3-5 years after cohort inception. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We used questionnaires to obtain information about age in years, sex, educational level, literacy, occupational attainment, and number of household assets. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We obtained information about mortality from all sites. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: For participants who had died, we interviewed a friend or relative to ascertain the likelihood that they had dementia before death. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: FINDINGS 12,887 participants were interviewed at baseline. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: 11,718 were free of dementia, of whom 8137 (69%) were reinterviewed, contributing 34,718 person-years of follow-up. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Incidence for 10/66 dementia varied between 18·2 and 30·4 per 1000 person-years, and were 1·4-2·7 times higher than were those for DSM-IV dementia (9·9-15·7 per 1000 person-years). Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Mortality hazards were 1·56-5·69 times higher in individuals with dementia at baseline than in those who were dementia-free. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Informant reports suggested a high incidence of dementia before death; overall incidence might be 4-19% higher if these data were included. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: 10/66 dementia incidence was independently associated with increased age (HR 1·67; 95% CI 1·56-1·79), female sex (0·72; 0·61-0·84), and low education (0·89; 0·81-0·97), but not with occupational attainment (1·04; 0·95-1·13). Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: INTERPRETATION Our results provide supportive evidence for the cognitive reserve hypothesis, showing that in middle-income countries as in high-income countries, education, literacy, verbal fluency, and motor sequencing confer substantial protection against the onset of dementia. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: FUNDING Wellcome Trust Health Consequences of Population Change Programme, WHO, US Alzheimer's Association, FONACIT/ CDCH/ UCV. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: BACKGROUND The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2015 provides an up-to-date synthesis of the evidence for risk factor exposure and the attributable burden of disease. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: By providing national and subnational assessments spanning the past 25 years, this study can inform debates on the importance of addressing risks in context. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: METHODS We used the comparative risk assessment framework developed for previous iterations of the Global Burden of Disease Study to estimate attributable deaths, disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), and trends in exposure by age group, sex, year, and geography for 79 behavioural, environmental and occupational, and metabolic risks or clusters of risks from 1990 to 2015. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: This study included 388 risk-outcome pairs that met World Cancer Research Fund-defined criteria for convincing or probable evidence. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We extracted relative risk and exposure estimates from randomised controlled trials, cohorts, pooled cohorts, household surveys, census data, satellite data, and other sources. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We used statistical models to pool data, adjust for bias, and incorporate covariates. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We developed a metric that allows comparisons of exposure across risk factors-the summary exposure value. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Using the counterfactual scenario of theoretical minimum risk level, we estimated the portion of deaths and DALYs that could be attributed to a given risk. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We decomposed trends in attributable burden into contributions from population growth, population age structure, risk exposure, and risk-deleted cause-specific DALY rates. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: We characterised risk exposure in relation to a Socio-demographic Index (SDI). Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: FINDINGS Between 1990 and 2015, global exposure to unsafe sanitation, household air pollution, childhood underweight, childhood stunting, and smoking each decreased by more than 25%. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Global exposure for several occupational risks, high body-mass index (BMI), and drug use increased by more than 25% over the same period. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: All risks jointly evaluated in 2015 accounted for 57·8% (95% CI 56·6-58·8) of global deaths and 41·2% (39·8-42·8) of DALYs. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: In 2015, the ten largest contributors to global DALYs among Level 3 risks were high systolic blood pressure (211·8 million [192·7 million to 231·1 million] global DALYs), smoking (148·6 million [134·2 million to 163·1 million]), high fasting plasma glucose (143·1 million [125·1 million to 163·5 million]), high BMI (120·1 million [83·8 million to 158·4 million]), childhood undernutrition (113·3 million [103·9 million to 123·4 million]), ambient particulate matter (103·1 million [90·8 million to 115·1 million]), high total cholesterol (88·7 million [74·6 million to 105·7 million]), household air pollution (85·6 million [66·7 million to 106·1 million]), alcohol use (85·0 million [77·2 million to 93·0 million]), and diets high in sodium (83·0 million [49·3 million to 127·5 million]). Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: From 1990 to 2015, attributable DALYs declined for micronutrient deficiencies, childhood undernutrition, unsafe sanitation and water, and household air pollution; reductions in risk-deleted DALY rates rather than reductions in exposure drove these declines. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Rising exposure contributed to notable increases in attributable DALYs from high BMI, high fasting plasma glucose, occupational carcinogens, and drug use. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Environmental risks and childhood undernutrition declined steadily with SDI; low physical activity, high BMI, and high fasting plasma glucose increased with SDI. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: In 119 countries, metabolic risks, such as high BMI and fasting plasma glucose, contributed the most attributable DALYs in 2015. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Regionally, smoking still ranked among the leading five risk factors for attributable DALYs in 109 countries; childhood underweight and unsafe sex remained primary drivers of early death and disability in much of sub-Saharan Africa. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: INTERPRETATION Declines in some key environmental risks have contributed to declines in critical infectious diseases. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Some risks appear to be invariant to SDI. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Increasing risks, including high BMI, high fasting plasma glucose, drug use, and some occupational exposures, contribute to rising burden from some conditions, but also provide opportunities for intervention. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Some highly preventable risks, such as smoking, remain major causes of attributable DALYs, even as exposure is declining. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: Public policy makers need to pay attention to the risks that are increasingly major contributors to global burden. Relevant:
Query: Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs Document: FUNDING Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Intestinal microbiota metabolism of choline and phosphatidylcholine produces trimethylamine (TMA), which is further metabolized to a proatherogenic species, trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO). Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: We demonstrate here that metabolism by intestinal microbiota of dietary L-carnitine, a trimethylamine abundant in red meat, also produces TMAO and accelerates atherosclerosis in mice. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Omnivorous human subjects produced more TMAO than did vegans or vegetarians following ingestion of L-carnitine through a microbiota-dependent mechanism. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: The presence of specific bacterial taxa in human feces was associated with both plasma TMAO concentration and dietary status. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Plasma L-carnitine levels in subjects undergoing cardiac evaluation (n = 2,595) predicted increased risks for both prevalent cardiovascular disease (CVD) and incident major adverse cardiac events (myocardial infarction, stroke or death), but only among subjects with concurrently high TMAO levels. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Chronic dietary L-carnitine supplementation in mice altered cecal microbial composition, markedly enhanced synthesis of TMA and TMAO, and increased atherosclerosis, but this did not occur if intestinal microbiota was concurrently suppressed. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: In mice with an intact intestinal microbiota, dietary supplementation with TMAO or either carnitine or choline reduced in vivo reverse cholesterol transport. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Intestinal microbiota may thus contribute to the well-established link between high levels of red meat consumption and CVD risk. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Recent studies indicate both clinical and mechanistic links between atherosclerotic heart disease and intestinal microbial metabolism of certain dietary nutrients producing trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO). Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Here we test the hypothesis that gut microbial transplantation can transmit choline diet-induced TMAO production and atherosclerosis susceptibility. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: First, a strong association was noted between atherosclerotic plaque and plasma TMAO levels in a mouse diversity panel (n = 22 strains, r = 0.38; p = 0.0001). Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: An atherosclerosis-prone and high TMAO-producing strain, C57BL/6J, and an atherosclerosis-resistant and low TMAO-producing strain, NZW/LacJ, were selected as donors for cecal microbial transplantation into apolipoprotein e null mice in which resident intestinal microbes were first suppressed with antibiotics. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Trimethylamine (TMA) and TMAO levels were initially higher in recipients on choline diet that received cecal microbes from C57BL/6J inbred mice; however, durability of choline diet-dependent differences in TMA/TMAO levels was not maintained to the end of the study. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Mice receiving C57BL/6J cecal microbes demonstrated choline diet-dependent enhancement in atherosclerotic plaque burden as compared with recipients of NZW/LacJ microbes. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Microbial DNA analyses in feces and cecum revealed transplantation of donor microbial community features into recipients with differences in taxa proportions between donor strains that were transmissible to recipients and that tended to show coincident proportions with TMAO levels. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Proportions of specific taxa were also identified that correlated with plasma TMAO levels in donors and recipients and with atherosclerotic lesion area in recipients. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Atherosclerosis susceptibility may be transmitted via transplantation of gut microbiota. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Gut microbes may thus represent a novel therapeutic target for modulating atherosclerosis susceptibility. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: IMPORTANCE Some evidence suggests vegetarian dietary patterns may be associated with reduced mortality, but the relationship is not well established. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the association between vegetarian dietary patterns and mortality. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: DESIGN Prospective cohort study; mortality analysis by Cox proportional hazards regression, controlling for important demographic and lifestyle confounders. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: SETTING Adventist Health Study 2 (AHS-2), a large North American cohort. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: PARTICIPANTS A total of 96,469 Seventh-day Adventist men and women recruited between 2002 and 2007, from which an analytic sample of 73,308 participants remained after exclusions. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: EXPOSURES Diet was assessed at baseline by a quantitative food frequency questionnaire and categorized into 5 dietary patterns: nonvegetarian, semi-vegetarian, pesco-vegetarian, lacto-ovo-vegetarian, and vegan. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURE The relationship between vegetarian dietary patterns and all-cause and cause-specific mortality; deaths through 2009 were identified from the National Death Index. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: RESULTS There were 2570 deaths among 73,308 participants during a mean follow-up time of 5.79 years. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: The mortality rate was 6.05 (95% CI, 5.82-6.29) deaths per 1000 person-years. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: The adjusted hazard ratio (HR) for all-cause mortality in all vegetarians combined vs nonvegetarians was 0.88 (95% CI, 0.80-0.97). Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: The adjusted HR for all-cause mortality in vegans was 0.85 (95% CI, 0.73-1.01); in lacto-ovo-vegetarians, 0.91 (95% CI, 0.82-1.00); in pesco-vegetarians, 0.81 (95% CI, 0.69-0.94); and in semi-vegetarians, 0.92 (95% CI, 0.75-1.13) compared with nonvegetarians. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Significant associations with vegetarian diets were detected for cardiovascular mortality, noncardiovascular noncancer mortality, renal mortality, and endocrine mortality. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Associations in men were larger and more often significant than were those in women. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Vegetarian diets are associated with lower all-cause mortality and with some reductions in cause-specific mortality. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: Results appeared to be more robust in males. Relevant:
Query: Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. Document: These favorable associations should be considered carefully by those offering dietary guidance. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: The differentiation of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis into a dormant spore is among the most well-characterized developmental pathways in biology. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Classical genetic screens performed over the past half century identified scores of factors involved in every step of this morphological process. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: More recently, transcriptional profiling uncovered additional sporulation-induced genes required for successful spore development. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Here, we used transposon-sequencing (Tn-seq) to assess whether there were any sporulation genes left to be discovered. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Our screen identified 133 out of the 148 genes with known sporulation defects. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Surprisingly, we discovered 24 additional genes that had not been previously implicated in spore formation. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: To investigate their functions, we used fluorescence microscopy to survey early, middle, and late stages of differentiation of null mutants from the B. subtilis ordered knockout collection. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: This analysis identified mutants that are delayed in the initiation of sporulation, defective in membrane remodeling, and impaired in spore maturation. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Several mutants had novel sporulation phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: We performed in-depth characterization of two new factors that participate in cell-cell signaling pathways during sporulation. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: One (SpoIIT) functions in the activation of σE in the mother cell; the other (SpoIIIL) is required for σG activity in the forespore. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Our analysis also revealed that as many as 36 sporulation-induced genes with no previously reported mutant phenotypes are required for timely spore maturation. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Finally, we discovered a large set of transposon insertions that trigger premature initiation of sporulation. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Our results highlight the power of Tn-seq for the discovery of new genes and novel pathways in sporulation and, combined with the recently completed null mutant collection, open the door for similar screens in other, less well-characterized processes. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: The forkhead O (FoxO) family of transcription factors participates in diverse physiologic processes, including induction of cell-cycle arrest, stress resistance, differentiation, apoptosis, and metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Several recent studies indicate that FoxO-dependent signaling is required for long-term regenerative potential of the hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) compartment through regulation of HSC response to physiologic oxidative stress, quiescence, and survival. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: These observations link FoxO function in mammalian systems with the evolutionarily conserved role of FoxO in promotion of stress resistance and longevity in lower phylogenetic systems. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Furthermore, these findings have implications for aging in higher organisms and in malignant stem cell biology, and suggest that FoxOs may play an important role in the maintenance and integrity of stem cell compartments in a broad spectrum of tissues. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Most genes affect many traits. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: This phenomenon, known as pleiotropy, is a major constraint on evolution because adaptive change in one trait may be prevented because it would compromise other traits affected by the same genes. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Here we show that pleiotropy can have an unexpected effect and benefit one of the most enigmatic of adaptations—cooperation. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: A spectacular act of cooperation occurs in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, in which some cells die to form a stalk that holds the other cells aloft as reproductive spores. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: We have identified a gene, dimA, in D. discoideum that has two contrasting effects. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: It is required to receive the signalling molecule DIF-1 that causes differentiation into prestalk cells. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: Ignoring DIF-1 and not becoming prestalk should allow cells to cheat by avoiding the stalk. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: However, we find that in aggregations containing the wild-type cells, lack of the dimA gene results in exclusion from spores. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: This pleiotropic linkage of stalk and spore formation limits the potential for cheating in D. discoideum because defecting on prestalk cell production results in an even greater reduction in spores. Relevant:
Query: Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. Document: We propose that the evolution of pleiotropic links between cheating and personal costs can stabilize cooperative adaptations. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Viral replication and microbial translocation from the gut to the blood during HIV infection lead to hyperimmune activation, which contributes to the decline in CD4+ T cell numbers during HIV infection. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Programmed death-1 (PD-1) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) are both upregulated during HIV infection. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Blocking interactions between PD-1 and programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) and between IL-10 and IL-10 receptor (IL-10R) results in viral clearance and improves T cell function in animal models of chronic viral infections. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Here we show that high amounts of microbial products and inflammatory cytokines in the plasma of HIV-infected subjects lead to upregulation of PD-1 expression on monocytes that correlates with high plasma concentrations of IL-10. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Triggering of PD-1 expressed on monocytes by PD-L1 expressed on various cell types induced IL-10 production and led to reversible CD4+ T cell dysfunction. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: We describe a new function for PD-1 whereby microbial products inhibit T cell expansion and function by upregulating PD-1 levels and IL-10 production by monocytes after binding of PD-1 by PD-L1. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Tumor-associated macrophages and high levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) are associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer patients, but their potential interdependence has not been evaluated. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: The objective of this study was to determine whether macrophages regulate COX-2 expression in breast cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: For this purpose, THP-1 cells were cocultured with HCC1954 breast cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Coculture led to increased COX-2 expression in the HCC1954 cells and elevated prostaglandin E(2) levels in conditioned media. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Similar results were observed when THP-1 cells were incubated with HCC1937 breast cancer cells or when human monocyte-derived macrophages were cocultured with HCC1954 cells. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Coculture triggered production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in HCC1954 cells. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: COX-2 induction was blocked in cells preincubated with an reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase inhibitor or by silencing p67PHOX, a subunit of NADPH oxidase. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: ROS production triggered activation of Src and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs). Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Blocking Src or MAPK activities or antagonizing the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor attenuated COX-2 induction in HCC1954 cells. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Coculture caused rapid induction of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) in both breast cancer cells and macrophages. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Increased IL-1β expression was blocked by an interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra), suggesting autocrine and paracrine effects. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Importantly, macrophage-induced COX-2 expression was blocked in HCC1954 cells preincubated with IL-1Ra or anti-IL-1β IgG. Together, these results indicate that macrophage-mediated induction of COX-2 in breast cancer cells is a consequence of IL-1β-mediated stimulation of ROS→Src→MAPK→AP-1 signaling. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: IL-1β-dependent induction of COX-2 in breast cancer cells provides a mechanism whereby macrophages contribute to tumor progression and potential therapeutic targets in breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) is a cytokine whose bioactivity is controlled by activation of the inflammasome. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: However, in response to lipopolysaccharide, human monocytes secrete IL-1β independently of classical inflammasome stimuli. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Here, we report that this constituted a species-specific response that is not observed in the murine system. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Indeed, in human monocytes, lipopolysaccharide triggered an "alternative inflammasome" that relied on NLRP3-ASC-caspase-1 signaling, yet was devoid of any classical inflammasome characteristics including pyroptosome formation, pyroptosis induction, and K(+) efflux dependency. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Genetic dissection of the underlying signaling pathway in a monocyte transdifferentiation system revealed that alternative inflammasome activation was propagated by TLR4-TRIF-RIPK1-FADD-CASP8 signaling upstream of NLRP3. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Importantly, involvement of this signaling cascade was limited to alternative inflammasome activation and did not extend to classical NLRP3 activation. Relevant:
Query: PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. Document: Because alternative inflammasome activation embraces both sensitivity and promiscuity of TLR4, we propose a pivotal role for this signaling cascade in TLR4-driven, IL-1β-mediated immune responses and immunopathology in humans. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: To initiate adaptive immunity, dendritic cells (DCs) move from parenchymal tissues to lymphoid organs by migrating along stromal scaffolds that display the glycoprotein podoplanin (PDPN). Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: PDPN is expressed by lymphatic endothelial and fibroblastic reticular cells and promotes blood-lymph separation during development by activating the C-type lectin receptor, CLEC-2, on platelets. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Here, we describe a role for CLEC-2 in the morphodynamic behavior and motility of DCs. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: CLEC-2 deficiency in DCs impaired their entry into lymphatics and trafficking to and within lymph nodes, thereby reducing T cell priming. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: CLEC-2 engagement of PDPN was necessary for DCs to spread and migrate along stromal surfaces and sufficient to induce membrane protrusions. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: CLEC-2 activation triggered cell spreading via downregulation of RhoA activity and myosin light-chain phosphorylation and triggered F-actin-rich protrusions via Vav signaling and Rac1 activation. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Thus, activation of CLEC-2 by PDPN rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in DCs to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Neural activity induces the remodeling of pre- and postsynaptic membranes, which maintain their apposition through cell adhesion molecules. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Among them, N-cadherin is redistributed, undergoes activity-dependent conformational changes, and is required for synaptic plasticity. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Here, we show that depolarization induces the enlargement of the width of spine head, and that cadherin activity is essential for this synaptic rearrangement. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Dendritic spines visualized with green fluorescent protein in hippocampal neurons showed an expansion by the activation of AMPA receptor, so that the synaptic apposition zone may be expanded. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: N-cadherin-venus fusion protein laterally dispersed along the expanding spine head. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Overexpression of dominant-negative forms of N-cadherin resulted in the abrogation of the spine expansion. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Inhibition of actin polymerization with cytochalasin D abolished the spine expansion. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Together, our data suggest that cadherin-based adhesion machinery coupled with the actin-cytoskeleton is critical for the remodeling of synaptic apposition zone. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: How instructive cues present on the cell surface have their precise effects on the actin cytoskeleton is poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Semaphorins are one of the largest families of these instructive cues and are widely studied for their effects on cell movement, navigation, angiogenesis, immunology and cancer. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Semaphorins/collapsins were characterized in part on the basis of their ability to drastically alter actin cytoskeletal dynamics in neuronal processes, but despite considerable progress in the identification of semaphorin receptors and their signalling pathways, the molecules linking them to the precise control of cytoskeletal elements remain unknown. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Recently, highly unusual proteins of the Mical family of enzymes have been found to associate with the cytoplasmic portion of plexins, which are large cell-surface semaphorin receptors, and to mediate axon guidance, synaptogenesis, dendritic pruning and other cell morphological changes. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Mical enzymes perform reduction–oxidation (redox) enzymatic reactions and also contain domains found in proteins that regulate cell morphology. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: However, nothing is known of the role of Mical or its redox activity in mediating morphological changes. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Here we report that Mical directly links semaphorins and their plexin receptors to the precise control of actin filament (F-actin) dynamics. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: We found that Mical is both necessary and sufficient for semaphorin–plexin-mediated F-actin reorganization in vivo. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Likewise, we purified Mical protein and found that it directly binds F-actin and disassembles both individual and bundled actin filaments. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: We also found that Mical utilizes its redox activity to alter F-actin dynamics in vivo and in vitro, indicating a previously unknown role for specific redox signalling events in actin cytoskeletal regulation. Relevant:
Query: PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. Document: Mical therefore is a novel F-actin-disassembly factor that provides a molecular conduit through which actin reorganization—a hallmark of cell morphological changes including axon navigation—can be precisely achieved spatiotemporally in response to semaphorins. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Although aberrant DNA methylation is considered to be one of the key ways by which tumor-suppressor and DNA-repair genes are silenced during tumor initiation and progression, the mechanisms underlying DNA methylation alterations in cancer remain unclear. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Here we show that prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) silences certain tumor-suppressor and DNA-repair genes through DNA methylation to promote tumor growth. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: These findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for PGE(2) in the promotion of tumor progression. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Prostaglandins (PGs) have been implicated as a regulator of tumor growth in mice and humans. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Since natural killer cell (NK) cytotoxicity may be an important component of immune surveillance against cancer, it is appropriate to study whether the amount of PGs produced by tumors may be sufficient to suppress NK activity. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Accordingly, the effect of various PGs on the NK activity of human peripheral mononuclear cells was investigated. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: The percentage cytotoxicity was measured by the release of Cr51 from labeled K562 and other target cells. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: At very high concentrations of PG (10(-6) M), suppression was seen with PGE2, PGD2, PGA2, and PGF2 alpha. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: However, at concentrations of PG in the physiologic range (10(-8) M), significant suppression was seen with PGE2 and PGD2 only. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: The percentage suppression with PGE2 ranged from 77% to 9.5% over a range of concentrations from 10(-5) to 10(-9) M (45% at 10(-8) M). Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Significant suppression was observed at 10(-8) M PGE2 with 4 different targets and at effector:target ratios varying from 50:1 to 12.5:1. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: To assess whether the suppressive effect of PGE2 was directed at the effector and/or target cell, K562 cells or effector cells were pretreated with PGE2. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Significant suppression was seen with effector cell pretreatment but not with target cell pretreatment. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Finally, the suppressive effects of supernatants obtained from tumor cell lines (polyoma virus-transformed murine fibroblast cell line, PY3T3) was determined. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: The marked suppressive effect of the supernatant could be attributed to its content of PGE. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Thus, it appears that the production of PGE by tumor cells may be an important modulator of human NK activity. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: To reach the biological alterations that characterize cancer, the genome of tumor cells must acquire increased mutability resulting from a malfunction of a network of genome stability systems, e.g., cell cycle arrest, DNA repair, and high accuracy of DNA synthesis during DNA replication. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Numeric chromosomal imbalance, referred to as aneuploidy, is the most prevalent genetic changes recorded among many types of solid tumors. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: We report here that ectopic expression in cells of DNA polymerase beta, an error-prone enzyme frequently over-regulated in human tumors, induces aneuploidy, an abnormal localization of the centrosome-associated gamma-tubulin protein during mitosis, a deficient mitotic checkpoint, and promotes tumorigenesis in nude immunodeficient mice. Relevant:
Query: PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. Document: Thus, we find that alteration of polymerase beta expression appears to induce major genetic changes associated with a malignant phenotype. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) at spinal neurons directly communicating pain-specific inputs from the periphery to the brain has been proposed to serve as a trigger for pain hypersensitivity in pathological states. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Previous studies have functionally implicated the NMDA receptor-NO pathway and the downstream second messenger, cGMP, in these processes. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Because cGMP can broadly influence diverse ion-channels, kinases, and phosphodiesterases, pre- as well as post-synaptically, the precise identity of cGMP targets mediating spinal LTP, their mechanisms of action, and their locus in the spinal circuitry are still unclear. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Here, we found that Protein Kinase G1 (PKG-I) localized presynaptically in nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in the expression of spinal LTP. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Using the Cre-lox P system, we generated nociceptor-specific knockout mice lacking PKG-I specifically in presynaptic terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord, but not in post-synaptic neurons or elsewhere (SNS-PKG-I(-/-) mice). Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Patch clamp recordings showed that activity-induced LTP at identified synapses between nociceptors and spinal neurons projecting to the periaqueductal grey (PAG) was completely abolished in SNS-PKG-I(-/-) mice, although basal synaptic transmission was not affected. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Analyses of synaptic failure rates and paired-pulse ratios indicated a role for presynaptic PKG-I in regulating the probability of neurotransmitter release. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor 1 and myosin light chain kinase were recruited as key phosphorylation targets of presynaptic PKG-I in nociceptive neurons. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Finally, behavioural analyses in vivo showed marked defects in SNS-PKG-I(-/-) mice in several models of activity-induced nociceptive hypersensitivity, and pharmacological studies identified a clear contribution of PKG-I expressed in spinal terminals of nociceptors. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Our results thus indicate that presynaptic mechanisms involving an increase in release probability from nociceptors are operational in the expression of synaptic LTP on spinal-PAG projection neurons and that PKG-I localized in presynaptic nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in this process to regulate pain sensitivity. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Neuropathic pain is a major, intractable clinical problem and its pathophysiology is not well understood. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Although recent gene expression profiling studies have enabled the identification of novel targets for pain therapy, classical study designs provide unclear results owing to the differential expression of hundreds of genes across sham and nerve-injured groups, which can be difficult to validate, particularly with respect to the specificity of pain modulation. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: To circumvent this, we used two outbred lines of rats, which are genetically similar except for being genetically segregated as a result of selective breeding for differences in neuropathic pain hypersensitivity. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: SerpinA3N, a serine protease inhibitor, was upregulated in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after nerve injury, which was further validated for its mouse homolog. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Mice lacking SerpinA3N developed more neuropathic mechanical allodynia than wild-type (WT) mice, and exogenous delivery of SerpinA3N attenuated mechanical allodynia in WT mice. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: T lymphocytes infiltrate the DRG after nerve injury and release leukocyte elastase (LE), which was inhibited by SerpinA3N derived from DRG neurons. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Genetic loss of LE or exogenous application of a LE inhibitor (Sivelastat) in WT mice attenuated neuropathic mechanical allodynia. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: Overall, we reveal a novel and clinically relevant role for a member of the serpin superfamily and a leukocyte elastase and crosstalk between neurons and T cells in the modulation of neuropathic pain. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: H2-M3 is a class Ib MHC molecule of the mouse with a 10(4)-fold preference for binding N-formylated peptides. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: To elucidate the basis of this unusual specificity, we expressed and crystallized a soluble form of M3 with a formylated nonamer peptide, fMYFINILTL, and determined the structure by X-ray crystallography. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: M3, refined at 2.1 A resolution, resembles class la MHC molecules in its overall structure, but differs in the peptide-binding groove. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: The A pocket, which usually accommodates the free N-terminus of a bound peptide, is closed, and the peptide is shifted one residue, such that the P1 side chain is lodged in the B pocket. Relevant:
Query: PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. Document: The formyl group is coordinated by His-9 and a bound water on the floor of the groove. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (encoded by Cftr) that impair its role as an apical chloride channel that supports bicarbonate transport. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Individuals with cystic fibrosis show retained, thickened mucus that plugs airways and obstructs luminal organs as well as numerous other abnormalities that include inflammation of affected organs, alterations in lipid metabolism and insulin resistance. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Here we show that colonic epithelial cells and whole lung tissue from Cftr-deficient mice show a defect in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma, encoded by Pparg) function that contributes to a pathological program of gene expression. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Lipidomic analysis of colonic epithelial cells suggests that this defect results in part from reduced amounts of the endogenous PPAR-gamma ligand 15-keto-prostaglandin E(2) (15-keto-PGE(2)). Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Treatment of Cftr-deficient mice with the synthetic PPAR-gamma ligand rosiglitazone partially normalizes the altered gene expression pattern associated with Cftr deficiency and reduces disease severity. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Rosiglitazone has no effect on chloride secretion in the colon, but it increases expression of the genes encoding carbonic anhydrases 4 and 2 (Car4 and Car2), increases bicarbonate secretion and reduces mucus retention. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: These studies reveal a reversible defect in PPAR-gamma signaling in Cftr-deficient cells that can be pharmacologically corrected to ameliorate the severity of the cystic fibrosis phenotype in mice. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: PURPOSE Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) regulate lipid and glucose metabolism but their anticancer properties have been recently studied as well. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: We previously reported the antimetastatic activity of the PPARalpha ligand, fenofibrate, against melanoma tumors in vivo. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Here we investigated possible molecular mechanisms of fenofibrate anti metastatic action. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN Monolayer cultures of mouse (B16F10) and human (SkMell88) melanoma cell lines, soft agar assay, and cell migration assay were used in this study. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: In addition, we analyzed PPARalpha expression and its transcriptional activity in response to fenotibrate by using Western blots and liciferase-based reporter system. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: RESULTS Fenofibrate inhibited migration of B16F10 and SkMel188 cells in Transwell chambers and colony formation in soft agar. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: These effects were reversed by PPAR inhibitor, GW9662. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Western blot analysis revealed time-dependent down-regulation of Akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase l/2 phosphorylation in fenofibrate-treated cells. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: A B16F10 cell line stably expressing constitutively active Akt mutant was resistant to fenofibrate. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: In contrast, Akt gene silencing with siRNA mimicked the fenofibrate action and reduced the migratory ability of B16F1O cells. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: In addition, fenofibrate strongly sensitized BI6FIO cells to the proapoptotic drug staurosporine, further supporting the possibility that fenofibrate-induced down-regulation of Akt function contributes to fenofibrate-mediated inhibition of metastatic potential in this experimental model. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: CONCLUSIONS Our results show that the PPAR-dependent antimetastatic activity of fenofibrate involves down-regulation of Akt phosphorylation and suggest that supplementation with this drug may improve the effectiveness of melanoma chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: INTRODUCTION Triglyceride accumulation in the liver is an early feature in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) associated with human obesity, which is a multifactorial syndrome and whose underlying mechanisms are beginning to be understood. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: OBJECTIVES Liver peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) mRNA expression was measured as a signaling mechanism related to steatosis in obese patients with NAFLD. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: METHODS Liver PPAR-γ and sterol receptor element-binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c) mRNA (real-time RT-PCR), serum total adiponectin (RIA), and high molecular weight (HMW)-adiponectin (ELISA) levels, and insulin resistance (IR) evolution (homeostasis model assessment-IR) were determined in 22 obese NAFLD patients (16 with steatosis and six with steatohepatitis) who underwent subtotal gastrectomy with gastrojejunal anastomosis in Roux-en-Y and 16 nonobese subjects who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy (controls). Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: RESULTS Liver PPAR-γ mRNA levels were 112 and 188% higher (P < 0.05) than control values in obese patients with steatosis and steatohepatitis, respectively, who also exhibited 70 and 62% increases in those of SREBP-1c, concomitantly with IR and lower levels of serum total adiponectin and HMW-adiponectin (P < 0.05). Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: Liver PPAR-γ expression showed positive associations with SREBP-1c mRNA levels (r = 0.86; P < 0.0001), serum insulin levels (r = 0.39; P < 0.01), and homeostasis model assessment-IR (r = 0.60; P < 0.0001), and negative correlations with total adiponectin (r = -0.37; P < 0.01) and HMW-adiponectin (r = -0.51; P < 0.001) levels in serum. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. Document: CONCLUSIONS PPAR-γ is up-regulated in the liver of obese patients with NAFLD, representing an additional reinforcing lipogenic mechanism to SREBP-1c induction in the development of hepatic steatosis. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (encoded by Cftr) that impair its role as an apical chloride channel that supports bicarbonate transport. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Individuals with cystic fibrosis show retained, thickened mucus that plugs airways and obstructs luminal organs as well as numerous other abnormalities that include inflammation of affected organs, alterations in lipid metabolism and insulin resistance. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Here we show that colonic epithelial cells and whole lung tissue from Cftr-deficient mice show a defect in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma, encoded by Pparg) function that contributes to a pathological program of gene expression. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Lipidomic analysis of colonic epithelial cells suggests that this defect results in part from reduced amounts of the endogenous PPAR-gamma ligand 15-keto-prostaglandin E(2) (15-keto-PGE(2)). Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Treatment of Cftr-deficient mice with the synthetic PPAR-gamma ligand rosiglitazone partially normalizes the altered gene expression pattern associated with Cftr deficiency and reduces disease severity. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Rosiglitazone has no effect on chloride secretion in the colon, but it increases expression of the genes encoding carbonic anhydrases 4 and 2 (Car4 and Car2), increases bicarbonate secretion and reduces mucus retention. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: These studies reveal a reversible defect in PPAR-gamma signaling in Cftr-deficient cells that can be pharmacologically corrected to ameliorate the severity of the cystic fibrosis phenotype in mice. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: PURPOSE Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) regulate lipid and glucose metabolism but their anticancer properties have been recently studied as well. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: We previously reported the antimetastatic activity of the PPARalpha ligand, fenofibrate, against melanoma tumors in vivo. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Here we investigated possible molecular mechanisms of fenofibrate anti metastatic action. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN Monolayer cultures of mouse (B16F10) and human (SkMell88) melanoma cell lines, soft agar assay, and cell migration assay were used in this study. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: In addition, we analyzed PPARalpha expression and its transcriptional activity in response to fenotibrate by using Western blots and liciferase-based reporter system. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: RESULTS Fenofibrate inhibited migration of B16F10 and SkMel188 cells in Transwell chambers and colony formation in soft agar. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: These effects were reversed by PPAR inhibitor, GW9662. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Western blot analysis revealed time-dependent down-regulation of Akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase l/2 phosphorylation in fenofibrate-treated cells. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: A B16F10 cell line stably expressing constitutively active Akt mutant was resistant to fenofibrate. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: In contrast, Akt gene silencing with siRNA mimicked the fenofibrate action and reduced the migratory ability of B16F1O cells. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: In addition, fenofibrate strongly sensitized BI6FIO cells to the proapoptotic drug staurosporine, further supporting the possibility that fenofibrate-induced down-regulation of Akt function contributes to fenofibrate-mediated inhibition of metastatic potential in this experimental model. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: CONCLUSIONS Our results show that the PPAR-dependent antimetastatic activity of fenofibrate involves down-regulation of Akt phosphorylation and suggest that supplementation with this drug may improve the effectiveness of melanoma chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: INTRODUCTION Triglyceride accumulation in the liver is an early feature in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) associated with human obesity, which is a multifactorial syndrome and whose underlying mechanisms are beginning to be understood. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: OBJECTIVES Liver peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) mRNA expression was measured as a signaling mechanism related to steatosis in obese patients with NAFLD. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: METHODS Liver PPAR-γ and sterol receptor element-binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c) mRNA (real-time RT-PCR), serum total adiponectin (RIA), and high molecular weight (HMW)-adiponectin (ELISA) levels, and insulin resistance (IR) evolution (homeostasis model assessment-IR) were determined in 22 obese NAFLD patients (16 with steatosis and six with steatohepatitis) who underwent subtotal gastrectomy with gastrojejunal anastomosis in Roux-en-Y and 16 nonobese subjects who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy (controls). Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: RESULTS Liver PPAR-γ mRNA levels were 112 and 188% higher (P < 0.05) than control values in obese patients with steatosis and steatohepatitis, respectively, who also exhibited 70 and 62% increases in those of SREBP-1c, concomitantly with IR and lower levels of serum total adiponectin and HMW-adiponectin (P < 0.05). Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: Liver PPAR-γ expression showed positive associations with SREBP-1c mRNA levels (r = 0.86; P < 0.0001), serum insulin levels (r = 0.39; P < 0.01), and homeostasis model assessment-IR (r = 0.60; P < 0.0001), and negative correlations with total adiponectin (r = -0.37; P < 0.01) and HMW-adiponectin (r = -0.51; P < 0.001) levels in serum. Relevant:
Query: PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. Document: CONCLUSIONS PPAR-γ is up-regulated in the liver of obese patients with NAFLD, representing an additional reinforcing lipogenic mechanism to SREBP-1c induction in the development of hepatic steatosis. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: CONTEXT Many observational studies have shown that physical activity reduces the risk of cognitive decline; however, evidence from randomized trials is lacking. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether physical activity reduces the rate of cognitive decline among older adults at risk. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: DESIGN AND SETTING Randomized controlled trial of a 24-week physical activity intervention conducted between 2004 and 2007 in metropolitan Perth, Western Australia. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Assessors of cognitive function were blinded to group membership. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: PARTICIPANTS We recruited volunteers who reported memory problems but did not meet criteria for dementia. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Three hundred eleven individuals aged 50 years or older were screened for eligibility, 89 were not eligible, and 52 refused to participate. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: A total of 170 participants were randomized and 138 participants completed the 18-month assessment. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: INTERVENTION Participants were randomly allocated to an education and usual care group or to a 24-week home-based program of physical activity. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Change in Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog) scores (possible range, 0-70) over 18 months. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: RESULTS In an intent-to-treat analysis, participants in the intervention group improved 0.26 points (95% confidence interval, -0.89 to 0.54) and those in the usual care group deteriorated 1.04 points (95% confidence interval, 0.32 to 1.82) on the ADAS-Cog at the end of the intervention. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: The absolute difference of the outcome measure between the intervention and control groups was -1.3 points (95% confidence interval,-2.38 to -0.22) at the end of the intervention. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: At 18 months, participants in the intervention group improved 0.73 points (95% confidence interval, -1.27 to 0.03) on the ADAS-Cog, and those in the usual care group improved 0.04 points (95% confidence interval, -0.46 to 0.88). Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Word list delayed recall and Clinical Dementia Rating sum of boxes improved modestly as well, whereas word list total immediate recall, digit symbol coding, verbal fluency, Beck depression score, and Medical Outcomes 36-Item Short-Form physical and mental component summaries did not change significantly. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this study of adults with subjective memory impairment, a 6-month program of physical activity provided a modest improvement in cognition over an 18-month follow-up period. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION anzctr.org.au Identifier: ACTRN12605000136606. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Independent mobility in early childhood has been associated with the development of various cognitive and psychosocial skills. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: However, children with physical disabilities are not always able to move independently and may be at risk for delays in these areas. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Early provision of powered mobility can offer young children an opportunity for independent mobility. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Despite this, there is little information to help determine when a young child has the cognitive skills necessary to operate a powered wheelchair safely. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: This current research aims to identify these skills. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: A cognitive assessment battery and a wheelchair mobility training and assessment program were developed. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Twenty-six children with physical disabilities between the ages of 20 and 36 months were evaluated on the cognitive assessment and participated in the wheelchair training and assessment program. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: A stepwise regression analysis was used to determine which of the cognitive skills predicted wheelchair mobility performance. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: The cognitive domains of spatial relations and problem solving were found to be significant and accounted for 57% of the variance in wheelchair skills. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Developmental cut-off points on these scales as they relate to wheelchair skills are presented and clinical applications are discussed. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effectiveness of integrated care for chronic physical diseases and depression in reducing disability and improving quality of life. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: DESIGN A randomised controlled trial of multi-condition collaborative care for depression and poorly controlled diabetes and/or risk factors for coronary heart disease compared with usual care among middle aged and elderly people   SETTING Fourteen primary care clinics in Seattle, Washington.   PARTICIPANTS Patients with diabetes or coronary heart disease, or both, and blood pressure above 140/90 mm Hg, low density lipoprotein concentration >3.37 mmol/L, or glycated haemoglobin 8.5% or higher, and PHQ-9 depression scores of ≥ 10. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: INTERVENTION A 12 month intervention to improve depression, glycaemic control, blood pressure, and lipid control by integrating a "treat to target" programme for diabetes and risk factors for coronary heart disease with collaborative care for depression. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: The intervention combined self management support, monitoring of disease control, and pharmacotherapy to control depression, hyperglycaemia, hypertension, and hyperlipidaemia. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Social role disability (Sheehan disability scale), global quality of life rating, and World Health Organization disability assessment schedule (WHODAS-2) scales to measure disabilities in activities of daily living (mobility, self care, household maintenance). Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: RESULTS Of 214 patients enrolled (106 intervention and 108 usual care), disability and quality of life measures were obtained for 97 intervention patients at six months (92%) and 92 at 12 months (87%), and for 96 usual care patients at six months (89%) and 92 at 12 months (85%). Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Improvements from baseline on the Sheehan disability scale (-0.9, 95% confidence interval -1.5 to -0.2; P = 0.006) and global quality of life rating (0.7, 0.2 to 1.2; P = 0.005) were significantly greater at six and 12 months in patients in the intervention group. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: There was a trend toward greater improvement in disabilities in activities of daily living (-1.5, -3.3 to 0.4; P = 0.10). Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: CONCLUSIONS Integrated care that covers chronic physical disease and comorbid depression can reduce social role disability and enhance global quality of life. Relevant:
Query: Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. Document: Trial registration Clinical Trials NCT00468676. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: OBJECTIVES To explore the association between a stable partnership and clinical outcome in HIV infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: DESIGN Prospective cohort study of adults with HIV (Swiss HIV cohort study). Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: SETTING Seven outpatient clinics throughout Switzerland. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: PARTICIPANTS The 3736 patients in the cohort who started HAART before 2002 (median age 36 years, 29% female, median follow up 3.6 years). Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Time to AIDS or death (primary endpoint), death alone, increases in CD4 cell count of at least 50 and 100 above baseline, optimal viral suppression (a viral load below 400 copies/ml), and viral rebound. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: RESULTS During follow up 2985 (80%) participants reported a stable partnership on at least one occasion. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: When starting HAART, 52% (545/1042) of participants reported a stable partnership; after five years of follow up 46% (190/412) of participants reported a stable partnership. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: In an analysis stratified by previous antiretroviral therapy and clinical stage when starting HAART (US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention group A, B, or C), the adjusted hazard ratio for progression to AIDS or death was 0.79 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.98) for participants with a stable partnership compared with those without. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: Adjusted hazards ratios for other endpoints were 0.59 (0.44 to 0.79) for progression to death, 1.15 (1.06 to 1.24) for an increase in CD4 cells of 100 counts/microl or more, and 1.06 (0.98 to 1.14) for optimal viral suppression. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: CONCLUSIONS A stable partnership is associated with a slower rate of progression to AIDS or death in HIV infected patients receiving HAART. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: Late presentation remains a major concern despite the dramatically improved prognosis realized by ART. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: We define a first presentation for HIV care during the course of HIV infection as 'late' if an AIDS-defining opportunistic disease is apparent, or if CD4+ T-cells are <200/microl. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: In the Western world, approximately 10 and 30% of HIV-infected individuals still present with CD4+ T-cells <50 and <200/microl, respectively; estimates are substantially higher for developing countries. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: Diagnosis and treatment of opportunistic diseases and intense supportive in-hospital care take precedence over ART. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: Benefits of starting ART without delay, that is, when opportunistic diseases are still active, include faster resolution of opportunistic diseases and a decreased risk of recurrence. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: The downside of starting ART without delay could include toxicity, drug interactions and immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: Among asymptomatic or oligosymptomatic individuals presenting late, where ART and primary prophylaxis are initiated, approximately 10-20% will become symptomatic from drug toxicity or undiagnosed opportunistic complications, including IRIS, which require appropriate therapies. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: In this review we describe late presentation to HIV care, the scale of the problem, the evaluation of a late-presenting patient and challenges associated with initiation of potent antiretroviral therapy (ART) in the setting of acute opportunistic infections and other comorbidities. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: Although 13 years have passed since identification of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) as the cause of AIDS, we do not yet know how HIV kills its primary target, the T cell that carries the CD4 antigen. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: We and others have shown an increase in the percentage of apoptotic cells among circulating CD4+ (and CD8+) T cells of HIV-seropositive individuals and an increase in frequency of apoptosis with disease progression. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: However, it is not known if this apoptosis occurs in infected or uninfected T cells. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: We show here, using in situ labelling of lymph nodes from HIV-infected children and SIV-infected macaques, that apoptosis occurs predominantly in bystander cells and not in the productively infected cells themselves. Relevant:
Query: Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. Document: These data have implications for pathogenesis and therapy, namely, arguing that rational drug therapy may involve combination agents targeting viral replication in infected cells and apoptosis of uninfected cells. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell tolerance, induced by myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), is one of the main mechanisms of tumor escape. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Using in vivo models, we show here that MDSCs directly disrupt the binding of specific peptide–major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) dimers to CD8-expressing T cells through nitration of tyrosines in a T-cell receptor (TCR)-CD8 complex. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: This process makes CD8-expressing T cells unable to bind pMHC and to respond to the specific peptide, although they retain their ability to respond to nonspecific stimulation. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Nitration of TCR-CD8 is induced by MDSCs through hyperproduction of reactive oxygen species and peroxynitrite during direct cell-cell contact. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Molecular modeling suggests specific sites of nitration that might affect the conformational flexibility of TCR-CD8 and its interaction with pMHC. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: These data identify a previously unknown mechanism of T-cell tolerance in cancer that is also pertinent to many pathological conditions associated with accumulation of MDSCs. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Besides synthesizing nitric oxide (NO), purified neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) can produce superoxide (.O2-) at lower L-Arg concentrations. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: By using electron paramagnetic resonance spin-trapping techniques, we monitored NO and .O2- formation in nNOS-transfected human kidney 293 cells. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: In control transfected cells, the Ca2+ ionophore A23187 triggered NO generation but no .O2- was seen. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: With cells in L-Arg-free medium, we observed .O2- formation that increased as the cytosolic L-Arg levels decreased, while NO generation declined. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: .O2- formation was virtually abolished by the specific NOS blocker, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Nitrotyrosine, a specific nitration product of peroxynitrite, accumulated in L-Arg-depleted cells but not in control cells. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Activation by A23187 was cytotoxic to L-Arg-depleted, but not to control cells, with marked lactate dehydrogenase release. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: The cytotoxicity was largely prevented by either superoxide dismutase or L-NAME. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Thus, with reduced L-Arg availability NOS elicits cytotoxicity by generating .O2- and NO that interact to form the potent oxidant peroxynitrite. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Regulating arginine levels may provide a therapeutic approach to disorders involving .O2-/NO-mediated cellular injury. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Direct molecular imaging of nano-spatial relationship between T cell receptor (TCR)/CD3 and CD4 or CD8 co-receptor before and after activation of a primary T cell has not been reported. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: We have recently innovated application of near-field scanning optical microscopy (NSOM) and immune-labeling quantum dots (QD) to image Ag-specific TCR response during in vivo clonal expansion, and now up-graded the NSOM/QD-based nanotechnology through dipole-polarization and dual-color imaging. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Using this imaging system scanning cell-membrane molecules at a best-optical lateral resolution, we demonstrated that CD3, CD4 or CD8 molecules were distinctly distributed as single QD-bound molecules or nano-clusters equivalent to 2-4 QD fluorescence-intensity/size on cell-membrane of un-stimulated primary T cells, and approximately 6-10% of CD3 were co-clustering with CD4 or CD8 as 70-110 nm nano-clusters without forming nano-domains. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: The ligation of TCR/CD3 on CD4 or CD8 T cells led to CD3 nanoscale co-clustering or interaction with CD4 or CD8 co-receptors forming 200-500 nm nano-domains or >500 nm micro-domains. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Such nano-spatial co-clustering of CD3 and CD4 or CD3 and CD8 appeared to be an intrinsic event of TCR/CD3 ligation, not purely limited to MHC engagement, and be driven by Lck phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: Importantly, CD28 co-stimulation remarkably enhanced TCR/CD3 nanoscale co-clustering or interaction with CD4 co-receptor within nano- or micro-domains on the membrane. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: In contrast, CD28 co-stimulation did not enhance CD8 clustering or CD3-CD8 co-clustering in nano-domains although it increased molecular number and density of CD3 clustering in the enlarged nano-domains. Relevant:
Query: Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. Document: These nanoscale findings provide new insights into TCR/CD3 interaction with CD4 or CD8 co-receptor in T-cell activation. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) from the secretin-like (class B) family are key players in hormonal homeostasis and are important drug targets for the treatment of metabolic disorders and neuronal diseases. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: They consist of a large N-terminal extracellular domain (ECD) and a transmembrane domain (TMD) with the GPCR signature of seven transmembrane helices. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Class B GPCRs are activated by peptide hormones with their C termini bound to the receptor ECD and their N termini bound to the TMD. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: It is thought that the ECD functions as an affinity trap to bind and localize the hormone to the receptor. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: This in turn would allow the hormone N terminus to insert into the TMD and induce conformational changes of the TMD to activate downstream signaling. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: In contrast to this prevailing model, we demonstrate that human class B GPCRs vary widely in their requirement of the ECD for activation. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: In one group, represented by corticotrophin-releasing factor receptor 1 (CRF1R), parathyroid hormone receptor (PTH1R), and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide type 1 receptor (PAC1R), the ECD requirement for high affinity hormone binding can be bypassed by induced proximity and mass action effects, whereas in the other group, represented by glucagon receptor (GCGR) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R), the ECD is required for signaling even when the hormone is covalently linked to the TMD. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Furthermore, the activation of GLP-1R by small molecules that interact with the intracellular side of the receptor is dependent on the presence of its ECD, suggesting a direct role of the ECD in GLP-1R activation. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) is a key physiological regulator of insulin secretion and a major therapeutic target for the treatment of type II diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: However, regulation of GLP-1R function is complex with multiple endogenous peptides that interact with the receptor, including full-length (1-37) and truncated (7-37) forms of GLP-1 that can exist in an amidated form (GLP-1(1-36)NH₂ and GLP-1(7-36)NH₂) and the related peptide oxyntomodulin. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: In addition, the GLP-1R possesses exogenous agonists, including exendin-4, and the allosteric modulator, compound 2 (6,7-dichloro-2-methylsulfonyl-3-tert-butylaminoquinoxaline). Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: The complexity of this ligand-receptor system is further increased by the presence of several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are distributed across the receptor. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: We have investigated 10 GLP-1R SNPs, which were characterized in three physiologically relevant signaling pathways (cAMP accumulation, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation, and intracellular Ca²⁺ mobilization); ligand binding and cell surface receptor expression were also determined. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: We demonstrate both ligand- and pathway-specific effects for multiple SNPs, with the most dramatic effect observed for the Met¹⁴⁹ receptor variant. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: At the Met¹⁴⁹ variant, there was selective loss of peptide-induced responses across all pathways examined, but preservation of response to the small molecule compound 2. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: In contrast, at the Cys³³³ variant, peptide responses were preserved but there was attenuated response to compound 2. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Strikingly, the loss of peptide function at the Met¹⁴⁹ receptor variant could be allosterically rescued by compound 2, providing proof-of-principle evidence that allosteric drugs could be used to treat patients with this loss of function variant. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: The weight lowering potential of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists (RAs) is inter-individually different and clinically unpredictable. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: The potential role of genetic variability of GLP-1R on body weight response to GLP-1 RAs in obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) has not yet been evaluated. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Fifty-seven obese women with PCOS (aged 30.7 ± 7.0, BMI 38.6 ± 5.3 kg/m2) were assigned to liraglutide 1.2 mg QD s.c. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: for 12 weeks and classified as strong responders regarding weight loss if they lost 5 % or more of their initial body weight. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: They were genotyped for common GLP-1R single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs6923761 and rs10305420. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Changes of measures of obesity were measured before and at the end of the treatment. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Twenty out of 57 subjects were strong responders and lost 7.38 ± 1.74 compared to 2.11 ± 2.17 kg lost in poor responders. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Carriers of at least one polymorphic rs10305420 allele had poor treatment response compared to carriers of two wild type alleles (OR = 0.27, 95 % CI = 0.09–0.85, P = 0.025). Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Carriers of at least one polymorphic rs6923761 allele tended to have stronger treatment response compared to carriers of two wild type alleles (OR = 3.06, 95 % CI = 0.96–9.74, P = 0.058). Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Fasting glucose and glucose after oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) comparably decreased in both groups when compared to baseline, whereas no within treatment differences were found in androgen profile. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: Gastrointestinal adverse events were transit and balanced between strong and poor responders. Relevant:
Query: Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. Document: GLP-1R rs10305420 polymorphism explained some of the inter-individual differences in response to liraglutide regarding weight loss in obese PCOS women. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Podocytes are critical in the maintenance of a healthy glomerular filter; however, they have been difficult to study in the intact kidney because of technical limitations. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Here we report the development of serial multiphoton microscopy (MPM) of the same glomeruli over several days to visualize the motility of podocytes and parietal epithelial cells (PECs) in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: In podocin-GFP mice, podocytes formed sporadic multicellular clusters after unilateral ureteral ligation and migrated into the parietal Bowman's capsule. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: The tracking of single cells in podocin-confetti mice featuring cell-specific expression of CFP, GFP, YFP or RFP revealed the simultaneous migration of multiple podocytes. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: In phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK)-GFP mice, serial MPM found PEC-to-podocyte migration and nanotubule connections. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Our data support a highly dynamic rather than a static nature of the glomerular environment and cellular composition. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Future application of this new approach should advance our understanding of the mechanisms of glomerular injury and regeneration. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Podocyte dysfunction, represented by foot process effacement and proteinuria, is often the starting point for progressive kidney disease. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Therapies aimed at the cellular level of the disease are currently not available. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Here we show that induction of urokinase receptor (uPAR) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein loss via a mechanism that includes lipid-dependent activation of αvβ3 integrin. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Mice lacking uPAR (Plaur−/−) are protected from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated proteinuria but develop disease after expression of a constitutively active β3 integrin. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Gene transfer studies reveal a prerequisite for uPAR expression in podocytes, but not in endothelial cells, for the development of LPS-mediated proteinuria. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Mechanistically, uPAR is required to activate αvβ3 integrin in podocytes, promoting cell motility and activation of the small GTPases Cdc42 and Rac1. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Blockade of αvβ3 integrin reduces podocyte motility in vitro and lowers proteinuria in mice. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Our findings show a physiological role for uPAR signaling in the regulation of kidney permeability. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Glomerular basement membrane (GBM) and podocalyxin are essential for podocyte morphology. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: We provide evidence of functional interconnections between basement membrane components (collagen IV and laminin), the expression of podocalyxin and the morphology of human glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes). Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: We demonstrated that GBM and laminin, but not collagen IV, up-regulated the expression of podocalyxin. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Scanning electron microscopy revealed that laminin induced a modified morphology of podocytes with process formation, which was more extensive in the presence of GBM. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Under high magnification, podocytes appeared ruffled. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Using transmission electron microscopy we observed that raised areas occurred in the basal cell surface. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Furthermore, the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody increased the extent of adhesion and spreading of podocytes to both collagen IV and laminin, thus podocalyxin apparently inhibits cell-matrix interactions. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: We also performed adhesion and spreading assays on podocytes grown under increased glucose concentration (25 mM). Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Under these conditions, the expression of podocalyxin was almost totally suppressed. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: The cells adhered and spread to basement membrane components but there was no increase in the extent of adhesion and spreading in the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody, or ruffling of the cell edges. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: Additionally, in podocytes expressing podocalyxin, the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody partially reversed the inhibition of adhesion to collagen IV provoked by anti-beta1 integrin antibody, thus podocalyxin should compete with beta1-related cell adhesion. Relevant:
Query: Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. Document: We suggest that the observed podocalyxin-mediated inhibition of binding to the matrix could be in part responsible for the specialized conformation of the basal surface of podocytes. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: OBJECTIVE Although the Polypill concept (proposed in 2003) is promising in terms of benefits for cardiovascular risk management, the potential costs and adverse effects are its main pitfalls. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: The objective of this study was to identify a tastier and safer alternative to the Polypill: the Polymeal. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: METHODS Data on the ingredients of the Polymeal were taken from the literature. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: The evidence based recipe included wine, fish, dark chocolate, fruits, vegetables, garlic, and almonds. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Data from the Framingham heart study and the Framingham offspring study were used to build life tables to model the benefits of the Polymeal in the general population from age 50, assuming multiplicative correlations. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: RESULTS Combining the ingredients of the Polymeal would reduce cardiovascular disease events by 76%. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: For men, taking the Polymeal daily represented an increase in total life expectancy of 6.6 years, an increase in life expectancy free from cardiovascular disease of 9.0 years, and a decrease in life expectancy with cardiovascular disease of 2.4 years. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: The corresponding differences for women were 4.8, 8.1, and 3.3 years. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: CONCLUSION The Polymeal promises to be an effective, non-pharmacological, safe, cheap, and tasty alternative to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and increase life expectancy in the general population. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: BACKGROUND Patients undergoing dialysis have a substantially increased risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Although several trials have shown the cardiovascular benefits of lowering blood pressure in the general population, there is uncertainty about the efficacy and tolerability of reducing blood pressure in patients on dialysis. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: We did a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the effect of blood pressure lowering in patients on dialysis. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: METHODS We systematically searched Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Library database for trials reported between 1950 and November, 2008, without language restriction. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: We extracted a standardised dataset from randomised controlled trials of blood pressure lowering in patients on dialysis that reported cardiovascular outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Meta-analysis was done with a random effects model. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: FINDINGS We identified eight relevant trials, which provided data for 1679 patients and 495 cardiovascular events. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Weighted mean systolic blood pressure was 4.5 mm Hg lower and diastolic blood pressure 2.3 mm Hg lower in actively treated patients than in controls. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Blood pressure lowering treatment was associated with lower risks of cardiovascular events (RR 0.71, 95% CI 0.55-0.92; p=0.009), all-cause mortality (RR 0.80, 0.66-0.96; p=0.014), and cardiovascular mortality (RR 0.71, 0.50-0.99; p=0.044) than control regimens. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: The effects seem to be consistent across a range of patient groups included in the studies. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: INTERPRETATION Treatment with agents that lower blood pressure should routinely be considered for individuals undergoing dialysis to reduce the very high cardiovascular morbidity and mortality rate in this population. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Metabolic syndrome is diagnosed when three or more of the following criteria are met: abdominal obesity (waist circumference more than 102 cm in men and 88 cm in women); hypertriglyceridemia of 150 mg/dl or above; a high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level less than 40 mg/dl in men or 50 mg/dl in women; blood pressure of 130/85 mm Hg or higher; or fasting glucose of at least 110 mg/dl. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Individuals with metabolic syndrome are likelier than others to develop diabetes and cardiovascular disease and have increased mortality from all causes (and from cardiovascular disease in particular). Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: The investigators attempted to determine the prevalence of the syndrome in the United States by analyzing data on 8814 men and women 20 years of age or older who took part in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey in the years 1988 to 1994. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: This is a cross-sectional health survey of a sample of the noninstitutionalized civilian American population. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: The overall age-adjusted prevalence of metabolic syndrome was 23.7%. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: The prevalence rose from 6.7% in persons 20 to 29 years of age to 42% in those aged 70 years and more. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: There was virtually no gender-related difference in prevalence rates for the combined racial groups. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Metabolic syndrome was most prevalent in Mexican Americans and least prevalent in whites, African Americans, and "others. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: " Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Among both African Americans and Mexican Americans, women had higher prevalence rates than men. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Extrapolating from age-specific prevalence rates and US census counts from the year 2000, 47 million US residents have metabolic syndrome. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: Considering its prevalence, it seems important to estimate the direct medical costs of metabolic syndrome. Relevant:
Query: Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. Document: In the great majority of cases the critical causes are improper nutrition and insufficient physical activity, emphasizing the importance of controlling obesity and encouraging physical activity in the United States. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Polymerization of actin filaments directed by the actin-related protein (Arp)2/3 complex supports many types of cellular movements. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: However, questions remain regarding the relative contributions of Arp2/3 complex versus other mechanisms of actin filament nucleation to processes such as path finding by neuronal growth cones; this is because of the lack of simple methods to inhibit Arp2/3 complex reversibly in living cells. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Here we describe two classes of small molecules that bind to different sites on the Arp2/3 complex and inhibit its ability to nucleate actin filaments. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: CK-0944636 binds between Arp2 and Arp3, where it appears to block movement of Arp2 and Arp3 into their active conformation. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: CK-0993548 inserts into the hydrophobic core of Arp3 and alters its conformation. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Both classes of compounds inhibit formation of actin filament comet tails by Listeria and podosomes by monocytes. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Two inhibitors with different mechanisms of action provide a powerful approach for studying the Arp2/3 complex in living cells. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Invadopodia are actin-rich membrane protrusions with a matrix degradation activity formed by invasive cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: We have studied the molecular mechanisms of invadopodium formation in metastatic carcinoma cells. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor kinase inhibitors blocked invadopodium formation in the presence of serum, and EGF stimulation of serum-starved cells induced invadopodium formation. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: RNA interference and dominant-negative mutant expression analyses revealed that neural WASP (N-WASP), Arp2/3 complex, and their upstream regulators, Nck1, Cdc42, and WIP, are necessary for invadopodium formation. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Time-lapse analysis revealed that invadopodia are formed de novo at the cell periphery and their lifetime varies from minutes to several hours. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Invadopodia with short lifetimes are motile, whereas long-lived invadopodia tend to be stationary. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Interestingly, suppression of cofilin expression by RNA interference inhibited the formation of long-lived invadopodia, resulting in formation of only short-lived invadopodia with less matrix degradation activity. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: These results indicate that EGF receptor signaling regulates invadopodium formation through the N-WASP–Arp2/3 pathway and cofilin is necessary for the stabilization and maturation of invadopodia. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Recent studies have investigated the dendritic actin cytoskeleton of the cell edge's lamellipodial (LP) region by experimentally decreasing the activity of the actin filament nucleator and branch former, the Arp2/3 complex. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Here we extend these studies via pharmacological inhibition of the Arp2/3 complex in sea urchin coelomocytes, cells that possess an unusually broad LP region and display correspondingly exaggerated centripetal flow. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: Using light and electron microscopy, we demonstrate that Arp2/3 complex inhibition via the drug CK666 dramatically altered LP actin architecture, slowed centripetal flow, drove a lamellipodial-to-filopodial shape change in suspended cells, and induced a novel actin structural organization during cell spreading. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: A general feature of the CK666 phenotype in coelomocytes was transverse actin arcs, and arc generation was arrested by a formin inhibitor. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: We also demonstrate that CK666 treatment produces actin arcs in other cells with broad LP regions, namely fish keratocytes and Drosophila S2 cells. Relevant:
Query: Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. Document: We hypothesize that the actin arcs made visible by Arp2/3 complex inhibition in coelomocytes may represent an exaggerated manifestation of the elongate mother filaments that could possibly serve as the scaffold for the production of the dendritic actin network. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess the performance and impact of primary human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA screening with cytology triage compared with conventional cytology on cervical cancer and severe pre-cancerous lesions. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: DESIGN Randomised trial. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: SETTING Population based screening programme for cervical cancer in southern Finland in 2003-5. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: PARTICIPANTS 58 076 women, aged 30-60, invited to the routine population based screening programme for cervical cancer. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: INTERVENTIONS Primary HPV DNA test (hybrid capture II) with cytology triage if the result was positive or conventional cytological screening (reference). Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Rate of cervical cancer, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade III, and adenocarcinoma in situ (as a composite outcome referred to as CIN III+) during 2003-7 through record linkage between files from the screening registry and the national cancer registry. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: RESULTS In the HPV and conventional arms there were 95 600 and 95 700 woman years of follow-up and 76 and 53 cases of CIN III+, respectively (of which six and eight were cervical cancers). Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The relative rate of CIN III+ in the HPV arm versus the conventional arm was 1.44 (95% confidence interval 1.01 to 2.05) among all women invited for screening and 1.77 (1.16 to 2.74) among those who attended. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Among women with a normal or negative test result, the relative rate of subsequent CIN III+ was 0.28 (0.04 to 1.17). Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The rate of cervical cancer between arms was 0.75 (0.25 to 2.16) among women invited for screening and 1.98 (0.52 to 9.38) among those who attended. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: CONCLUSIONS When incorporated into a well established organised screening programme, primary HPV screening with cytology triage was more sensitive than conventional cytology in detecting CIN III+ lesions. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The number of cases of cervical cancer was small, but considering the high probability of progression of CIN III the findings are of importance regarding cancer prevention. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN23885553. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: BACKGROUND Human papillomavirus (HPV) testing is known to be more sensitive, but less specific than cytology for detecting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: We assessed the efficacy of cervical-cancer screening policies that are based on HPV testing. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: METHODS Between March, 2004, and December, 2004, in two separate recruitment phases, women aged 25-60 years were randomly assigned to conventional cytology or to HPV testing in combination with liquid-based cytology (first phase) or alone (second phase). Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Randomisation was done by computer in two screening centres and by sequential opening of numbered sealed envelopes in the remaining seven centres. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: During phase one, women who were HPV-positive and aged 35-60 years were referred to colposcopy, whereas women aged 25-34 years were referred to colposcopy only if cytology was also abnormal or HPV testing was persistently positive. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: During phase two, women in the HPV group were referred for colposcopy if the HPV test was positive. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Two rounds of screening occurred in each phase, and all women had cytology testing only at the second round. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The primary endpoint was the detection of grade 2 and 3 CIN, and of invasive cervical cancers during the first and second screening rounds. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Analysis was done by intention to screen. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: This trial is registered, number ISRCTN81678807. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: FINDINGS In total for both phases, 47,001 women were randomly assigned to the cytology group and 47,369 to HPV testing. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: 33,851 women from the cytology group and 32,998 from the HPV-testing group had a second round of screening. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: We also retrieved the histological diagnoses from screening done elsewhere. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The detection of invasive cervical cancers was similar for the two groups in the first round of screening (nine in the cytology group vs seven in the HPV group, p=0.62); no cases were detected in the HPV group during round two, compared with nine in the cytology group (p=0.004). Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Overall, in the two rounds of screening, 18 invasive cancers were detected in the cytology group versus seven in the HPV group (p=0.028). Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Among women aged 35-60 years, at round one the relative detection (HPV vs cytology) was 2.00 (95% CI 1.44-2.77) for CIN2, 2.08 (1.47-2.95) for CIN3, and 2.03 (1.60-2.57) for CIN2 and 3 together. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: At round two the relative detection was 0.54 (0.23-1.28) for CIN2, 0.48 (0.21-1.11) for CIN3, and 0.51 (0.28-0.93) for CIN2 and 3 together. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Among women aged 25-34 years, there was significant heterogeneity between phases in the relative detection of CIN3. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: At round one the relative detection was 0.93 (0.52-1.64) in phase one and 3.91 (2.02-7.57) in phase two. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: At round two the relative detection was 1.34 (0.46-3.84) in phase one and 0.20 (0.04-0.93) in phase two. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Pooling both phases, the detection ratio of CIN2 for women aged 25-34 years was 4.09 (2.24-7.48) at round one and 0.64 (0.23-1.27) at round two. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: INTERPRETATION HPV-based screening is more effective than cytology in preventing invasive cervical cancer, by detecting persistent high-grade lesions earlier and providing a longer low-risk period. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: However, in younger women, HPV screening leads to over-diagnosis of regressive CIN2. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: FUNDING European Union, Italian Ministry of Health, Regional Health Administrations of Piemonte, Tuscany, Veneto and Emilia-Romagna, and Public Health Agency of Lazio. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: More than ever, clinicians need regularly updated reviews given the continuously increasing amount of new information regarding innovative cervical cancer prevention methods. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: A summary is given from recent meta-analyses and systematic reviews on 3 possible clinical applications of human papillomavirus (HPV) testing: triage of women with equivocal or low-grade cytologic abnormalities; prediction of the therapeutic outcome after treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) lesions, and last not but not least, primary screening for cervical cancer and pre-cancer. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Consistent evidence is available indicating that HPV-triage with the Hybrid Capture(®) 2 assay (Qiagen Gaithersburg, Inc., MD, USA [previously Digene Corp.] (HC2) is more accurate (higher sensitivity, similar specificity) than repeat cytology to triage women with equivocal Pap smear results. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Several other tests show at least similar accuracy but mRNA testing with the APTIMA(®) (Gen-Probe Inc., San Diego, CA, USA) test is similarly sensitive but more specific compared to HC2. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: In triage of low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL), HC2 is more sensitive but its specificity is substantially lower compared to repeat cytology. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The APTIMA(®) test is more specific than HC2 without showing a loss in sensitivity. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Identification of DNA of HPV types 16 and/or 18, or RNA from the five most carcinogenic HPV types allow selecting women at highest risk for CIN3+ but the sensitivity and negative predictive value of these markers are lower than full-range high-risk HPV (hrHPV) testing. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: After conservative treatment of cervical pre-cancer, HPV testing picks up more quickly, with higher sensitivity and not lower specificity, residual or recurrent high-grade CIN than follow-up cytology. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Primary screening for hrHPV generally detects more CIN2, CIN3 or cancer compared to cytology at cut-off atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) or LSIL, but is less specific. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Combined HPV and cytology screening provides a further small gain in sensitivity at the expense of a considerable loss in specificity if positive by either test is referred to colposcopy, in comparison with HPV testing only. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: Randomised trials and follow-up of cohort studies consistently demonstrate a significantly lower cumulative incidence of CIN3+ and even of cancer, in women aged 30 years or older, who were at enrollment hrHPV DNA negative compared to those who were cytologically negative. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The difference in cumulative risk of CIN3+ or cancer for double negative (cytology & HPV) versus only HPV-negative women is small. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: HC2, GP5+/6+ PCR (polymerase chain reaction), cobas(®) 4800 PCR (Roche Molecular Systems Inc., Alameda, CA, USA) and Real Time PCR (Abbott Molecular, Des Plaines, IL, USA) can be considered as clinically validated for use in primary screening. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: The loss in specificity associated with primary HPV-based screening can be compensated by appropriate algorithms involving reflex cytology and/or HPV genotyping for HPV16 or 18. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: There exists a substantial evidence base to support that HPV testing is advantageous both in triage of women with equivocal abnormal cytology, in surveillance after treatment of CIN lesions and in primary screening of women aged 30 years or older. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: However, the possible advantages offered by HPV-based screening require a well organised program with good compliance with screening and triage policies. Relevant:
Query: Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. Document: This article forms part of a special supplement entitled "Comprehensive Control of HPV Infections and Related Diseases" Vaccine Volume 30, Supplement 5, 2012. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Membrane cholesterol modulates a variety of cell signaling pathways and functions. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: While cholesterol depletion by high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) has potent anti-inflammatory effects in various cell types, its effects on inflammatory responses in macrophages remain elusive. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Here we show overt pro-inflammatory effects of HDL-mediated passive cholesterol depletion and lipid raft disruption in murine and human primary macrophages in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: These pro-inflammatory effects were confirmed in vivo in peritoneal macrophages from apoA-I transgenic mice, which have elevated HDL levels. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: In line with these findings, the innate immune responses required for clearance of P. aeruginosa bacterial infection in lung were compromised in mice with low HDL levels. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Expression analysis, ChIP-PCR, and combinatorial pharmacological and genetic intervention studies unveiled that both native and reconstituted HDL enhance Toll-like-receptor-induced signaling by activating a PKC-NF-κB/STAT1-IRF1 axis, leading to increased inflammatory cytokine expression. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: HDL's pro-inflammatory activity supports proper functioning of macrophage immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Curcumin, a major component of turmeric, has been shown to exhibit anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: The present study was performed to determine whether curcumin is efficacious against both collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice and IL-1beta-induced activation in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs). Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: DBA/1 mice were immunized with bovine type II collagen (CII) and treated with curcumin every other day for 2weeks after the initial immunization. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: For arthritis, we evaluated the incidence of disease and used an arthritis index based on paw thickness. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: In vitro proliferation of CII- or concanavalin A-induced splenic T cells was examined using IFN-gamma production. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1beta were examined in the mouse ankle joint and serum IgG1 and IgG2a isotypes were analyzed. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: The expression levels of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in human FLSs were also determined. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: The results showed that compared with untreated CIA mice, curcumin-treated mice downregulated clinical arthritis score, the proliferation of splenic T cells, expression levels of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in the ankle joint, and expression levels of IgG2a in serum. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Additionally, by altering nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB transcription activity in FLSs, curcumin inhibited PGE(2) production, COX-2 expression, and MMP secretion. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: These results suggest that curcumin can effectively suppress inflammatory response by inhibiting pro-inflammatory mediators and regulating humoral and cellular immune responses. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Virally induced inflammatory responses, beta cell destruction and release of beta cell autoantigens may lead to autoimmune reactions culminating in type 1 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Therefore, viral capability to induce beta cell death and the nature of virus-induced immune responses are among key determinants of diabetogenic viruses. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: We hypothesised that enterovirus infection induces a specific gene expression pattern that results in islet destruction and that such a host response pattern is not shared among all enterovirus infections but varies between virus strains. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: The changes in global gene expression and secreted cytokine profiles induced by lytic or benign enterovirus infections were studied in primary human pancreatic islet using DNA microarrays and viral strains either isolated at the clinical onset of type 1 diabetes or capable of causing a diabetes-like condition in mice. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: The expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine genes (IL-1-α, IL-1-β and TNF-α) that also mediate cytokine-induced beta cell dysfunction correlated with the lytic potential of a virus. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Temporally increasing gene expression levels of double-stranded RNA recognition receptors, antiviral molecules, cytokines and chemokines were detected for all studied virus strains. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: Lytic coxsackievirus B5 (CBV-5)-DS infection also downregulated genes involved in glycolysis and insulin secretion. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: The results suggest a distinct, virus-strain-specific, gene expression pattern leading to pancreatic islet destruction and pro-inflammatory effects after enterovirus infection. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: However, neither viral replication nor cytotoxic cytokine production alone are sufficient to induce necrotic cell death. Relevant:
Query: Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Document: More likely the combined effect of these and possibly cellular energy depletion lie behind the enterovirus-induced necrosis of islets. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Local translation mediates axonal responses to Semaphorin3A (Sema3A) and other guidance cues. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: However, only a subset of the axonal proteome is locally synthesized, whereas most proteins are trafficked from the soma. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: The reason why only specific proteins are locally synthesized is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Here we show that local protein synthesis and degradation are linked events in growth cones. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: We find that growth cones exhibit high levels of ubiquitination and that local signalling pathways trigger the ubiquitination and degradation of RhoA, a mediator of Sema3A-induced growth cone collapse. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Inhibition of RhoA degradation is sufficient to remove the protein-synthesis requirement for Sema3A-induced growth cone collapse. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: In addition to RhoA, we find that locally translated proteins are the main targets of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in growth cones. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Thus, local protein degradation is a major feature of growth cones and creates a requirement for local translation to replenish proteins needed to maintain growth cone responses. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Semaphorin3A (Sema3A) is a repulsive guidance molecule for axons, which acts by inducing growth cone collapse through phosphorylation of CRMP2 (collapsin response mediator protein 2). Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Here, we show a role for CRMP2 oxidation and thioredoxin (TRX) in the regulation of CRMP2 phosphorylation and growth cone collapse. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Sema3A stimulation generated hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) through MICAL (molecule interacting with CasL) and oxidized CRMP2, enabling it to form a disulfide-linked homodimer through cysteine-504. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Oxidized CRMP2 then formed a transient disulfide-linked complex with TRX, which stimulated CRMP2 phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase-3, leading to growth cone collapse. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: We also reconstituted oxidation-dependent phosphorylation of CRMP2 in vitro, using a limited set of purified proteins. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Our results not only clarify the importance of H2O2 and CRMP2 oxidation in Sema3A-induced growth cone collapse but also indicate an unappreciated role for TRX in linking CRMP2 oxidation to phosphorylation. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: The ubiquitin-binding protein Hrs and endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-I and ESCRT-III are involved in sorting endocytosed and ubiquitinated receptors to lysosomes for degradation and efficient termination of signaling. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: In this study, we have investigated the role of the ESCRT-II subunit Vps22/EAP30 in degradative protein sorting of ubiquitinated receptors. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Vps22 transiently expressed in HeLa cells was detected in endosomes containing endocytosed epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs) as well as Hrs and ESCRT-I and ESCRT-III. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Depletion of Vps22 by small interfering RNA, which was accompanied by decreased levels of other ESCRT-II subunits, greatly reduced degradation of EGFR and its ligand EGF as well as the chemokine receptor CXCR4. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: EGFR accumulated on the limiting membranes of early endosomes and aberrantly small multivesicular bodies in Vps22-depleted cells. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: Phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase1/2 downstream of the EGF-activated receptor were sustained by depletion of Hrs or the ESCRT-I subunit Tsg101. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: In contrast, this was not the case when Vps22 was depleted. Relevant:
Query: Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. Document: These results indicate an important role for Vps22 in ligand-induced EGFR and CXCR4 turnover and suggest that termination of EGF signaling occurs prior to ESCRT-II engagement. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: The canonical role of messenger RNA (mRNA) is to deliver protein-coding information to sites of protein synthesis. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: However, given that microRNAs bind to RNAs, we hypothesized that RNAs could possess a regulatory role that relies on their ability to compete for microRNA binding, independently of their protein-coding function. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: As a model for the protein-coding-independent role of RNAs, we describe the functional relationship between the mRNAs produced by the PTEN tumour suppressor gene and its pseudogene PTENP1 and the critical consequences of this interaction. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: We find that PTENP1 is biologically active as it can regulate cellular levels of PTEN and exert a growth-suppressive role. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: We also show that the PTENP1 locus is selectively lost in human cancer. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: We extended our analysis to other cancer-related genes that possess pseudogenes, such as oncogenic KRAS. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: We also demonstrate that the transcripts of protein-coding genes such as PTEN are biologically active. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: These findings attribute a novel biological role to expressed pseudogenes, as they can regulate coding gene expression, and reveal a non-coding function for mRNAs. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: BACKGROUND Mature microRNAs (miRNAs) are single-stranded RNAs that regulate post-transcriptional gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: In our previous study, we have shown that versican 3'UTR, a fragment of non-coding transcript, has the ability to antagonize miR-199a-3p function thereby regulating expression of the matrix proteins versican and fibronectin, and thus resulting in enhanced cell-cell adhesion and organ adhesion. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: However, the impact of this non-coding fragment on tumorigenesis is yet to be determined. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Using computational prediction confirmed with in vitro and in vivo experiments, we report that the expression of versican 3'UTR not only antagonizes miR-199a-3p but can also lower its steady state expression. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: We found that expression of versican 3'UTR in a mouse breast carcinoma cell line, 4T1, decreased miR-199a-3p levels. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: The decrease in miRNA activity consequently translated into differences in tumor growth. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: Computational analysis indicated that both miR-199a-3p and miR-144 targeted a cell cycle regulator, Rb1. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: In addition, miR-144 and miR-136, which have also been shown to interact with versican 3'UTR, was found to target PTEN. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: Expression of Rb1 and PTEN were up-regulated synergistically in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that the 3'UTR binds and modulates miRNA activities, freeing Rb1 and PTEN mRNAs for translation. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: In tumor formation assays, cells transfected with the 3'UTR formed smaller tumors compared with cells transfected with a control vector. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: CONCLUSION Our results demonstrated that a 3'UTR fragment can be used to modulate miRNA functions. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: Our study also suggests that miRNAs in the cancer cells are more susceptible to degradation, due to its interaction with a non-coding 3'UTR. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: This non-coding component of mRNA may be used retrospectively to modulate miRNA activities. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: PURPOSE Tyrosine kinase (TK) inhibitors are emerging as a promising new approach to the treatment of HER overexpressing tumors, however optimal use of these agents awaits further definition of the downstream signaling pathways that mediate their effects. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: We reported previously that both EGFR- and Her2-overexpressing tumors are sensitive to the new EGFR-selective TK inhibitor gefitinib (ZD1839, "Iressa"), and sensitivity to this agent correlated with its ability to down-regulate Akt. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: However, EGFR-overexpressing MDA-468 cells, which lack PTEN function, are resistant to ZD1839, and ZD1839 is unable to down-regulate Akt activity in these cells. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN To study the role of PTEN function, we generated MDA468 cells with tet-inducible PTEN expression. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: RESULTS We show here that the resistance of MDA-468 cells to ZD1839 is attributable to EGFR-independent constitutive Akt activation caused by loss of PTEN function in these cells. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: Reconstitution of PTEN function through tet-inducible expression restores ZD1839 sensitivity to these cells and reestablishes EGFR-stimulated Akt signaling. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: Although restoration of PTEN function to tumors is difficult to implement clinically, much of the effects of PTEN loss are attributable to overactive PI3K/Akt pathway signaling, and this overactivity can be modulated by pharmacologic approaches. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: We show here that pharmacologic down-regulation of constitutive PI3K/Akt pathway signaling using the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 similarly restores EGFR-stimulated Akt signaling and sensitizes MDA-468 cells to ZD1839. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: CONCLUSIONS Sensitivity to ZD1839 requires intact growth factor receptor-stimulated Akt signaling activity. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: PTEN loss leads to uncoupling of this signaling pathway and results in ZD1839 resistance, which can be reversed with reintroduction of PTEN or pharmacologic down-regulation of constitutive PI3K/Akt pathway activity. Relevant:
Query: Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. Document: These data have important predictive and therapeutic clinical implications. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: G-quadruplex (G4)-forming genomic sequences, including telomeres, represent natural replication fork barriers. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Stalled replication forks can be stabilized and restarted by homologous recombination (HR), which also repairs DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) arising at collapsed forks. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: We have previously shown that HR facilitates telomere replication. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Here, we demonstrate that the replication efficiency of guanine-rich (G-rich) telomeric repeats is decreased significantly in cells lacking HR. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Treatment with the G4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (PDS) increases telomere fragility in BRCA2-deficient cells, suggesting that G4 formation drives telomere instability. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Remarkably, PDS reduces proliferation of HR-defective cells by inducing DSB accumulation, checkpoint activation, and deregulated G2/M progression and by enhancing the replication defect intrinsic to HR deficiency. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: PDS toxicity extends to HR-defective cells that have acquired olaparib resistance through loss of 53BP1 or REV7. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Altogether, these results highlight the therapeutic potential of G4-stabilizing drugs to selectively eliminate HR-compromised cells and tumors, including those resistant to PARP inhibition. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Most eukaryotic telomeres contain a repeating motif with stretches of guanine residues that form a 3'-terminal overhang extending beyond the telomeric duplex region. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: The telomeric repeat of hypotrichous ciliates, d(T(4)G(4)), forms a 16-nucleotide 3'-overhang. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Such sequences can adopt parallel-stranded as well as antiparallel-stranded quadruplex conformations in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Although it has been proposed that guanine-quadruplex conformations may have important cellular roles including telomere function, recombination, and transcription, evidence for the existence of this DNA structure in vivo has been elusive to date. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: We have generated high-affinity single-chain antibody fragment (scFv) probes for the guanine-quadruplex formed by the Stylonychia telomeric repeat, by ribosome display from the Human Combinatorial Antibody Library. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Of the scFvs selected, one (Sty3) had an affinity of K(d) = 125 pM for the parallel-stranded guanine-quadruplex and could discriminate with at least 1,000-fold specificity between parallel or antiparallel quadruplex conformations formed by the same sequence motif. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: A second scFv (Sty49) bound both the parallel and antiparallel quadruplex with similar (K(d) = 3--5 nM) affinity. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Indirect immunofluorescence studies show that Sty49 reacts specifically with the macronucleus but not the micronucleus of Stylonychia lemnae. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: The replication band, the region where replication and telomere elongation take place, was also not stained, suggesting that the guanine-quadruplex is resolved during replication. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Our results provide experimental evidence that the telomeres of Stylonychia macronuclei adopt in vivo a guanine-quadruplex structure, indicating that this structure may have an important role for telomere functioning. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Demonstration of the existence of G-quadruplex structures in telomeres of Stylonychia macronuclei and in the promoter of c-myc in human cells has validated these secondary DNA structures as potential targets for drug design. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: The next important issue is the selectivity of G-quadruplex-interactive agents for the different types of G-quadruplex structures. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: In this study, we have taken an important step in associating specific biological effects of these drugs with selective interaction with either intermolecular or intramolecular G-quadruplex structures formed in telomeres. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Telomestatin is a natural product isolated from Streptomyces anulatus 3533-SV4 and has been shown to be a very potent telomerase inhibitor through its G-quadruplex interaction. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: We have demonstrated that telomestatin interacts preferentially with intramolecular versus intermolecular G-quadruplex structures and also has a 70-fold selectivity for intramolecular G-quadruplex structures over duplex DNA. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Telomestatin is able to stabilize G-quadruplex structures that are formed from duplex human telomeric DNA as well as from single-stranded DNA. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: Importantly, telomestatin stabilizes these G-quadruplex structures in the absence of monovalent cations, which is a unique characteristic among G-quadruplex-interactive compounds. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: At noncytotoxic concentrations, telomestatin suppresses the proliferation of telomerase-positive cells within several weeks. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: In contrast, TMPyP4, a compound that preferentially facilitates the formation of intermolecular G-quadruplex structures, suppresses the proliferation of alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT)-positive cells as well as telomerase-positive cells. Relevant:
Query: Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. Document: We have also demonstrated that TMPyP4 induces anaphase bridges in sea urchin embryos, whereas telomestatin did not have this effect, leading us to conclude that the selectivity of telomestatin for intramolecular G-quadruplex structures and TMPyP4 for intermolecular G-quadruplex structures is important in mediating different biological effects: stabilization of intramolecular G-quadruplex structures produces telomerase inhibition and accelerated telomere shortening, whereas facilitation of the formation of intermolecular G-quadruplex structures induces the formation of anaphase bridges. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: OBJECTIVE To investigate the long term effect of radioactive iodine on thyroid function and size in patients with non-toxic multinodular goitre. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: DESIGN Consecutive patients with multinodular non-toxic goitre selected for radioactive iodine treatment and followed for a minimum of 12 months (median 48 months) after an intended dose of 3.7 MBq/g thyroid tissue corrected to a 100% uptake of iodine-131 in 24 hours. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: PATIENTS 69 patients with a growing multinodular non-toxic goitre causing local compression symptoms or cosmetic inconveniences. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: The treatment was chosen because of a high operative risk, previous thyroidectomy, or refusal to be operated on. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS Standard thyroid function variables and ultrasonically determined thyroid volume before treatment as well as 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment and then once a year. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: RESULTS 56 patients were treated with a single dose of 131I, 12 with two doses, and one with four doses. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: In 45 patients treated with one dose and remaining euthyroid the median thyroid volume was reduced from 73 (interquartile range 50-106) ml to 29 (23-48) ml at 24 months in the 39 patients in whom this was measured during follow up. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: The median reduction was 40 (22-48) ml (60% reduction, p < 0.0001), half of which occurred within three months. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Patients treated with two doses as well as those developing hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism had a significant reduction in thyroid volume. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Eleven patients developed hypothyroidism (cumulative five year risk 22%, 95% confidence interval 4.8% to 38.4%). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Side effects were few: three cases of hyperthyroidism and two cases of radiation thyroiditis. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Only one patient was dissatisfied with the result; she was referred for operation six months after treatment. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: CONCLUSIONS A substantial reduction in thyroid volume accompanied by a low incidence of hypothyroidism and few side effects makes the use of radioactive iodine an attractive alternative to surgery in selected cases of non-toxic multinodular goitre. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: As a result of increasing interest in non-surgical treatment for the reduction of goitre size the use of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging for volume estimation of large multinodular goitres was evaluated in 20 patients (three males and 17 females; age 61 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 21 years) with a multinodular goitre larger than 100 ml. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: In addition, MR measurements were compared with scintigraphic (SC) volume estimations. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Intraobserver coefficient of variation (CV) of MR measurements was 2.2 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 2.0% (Observer 1) and interobserver CV 4.1 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 2.2% (Observers 1 and 2). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: In all 20 patients signs of mechanical complications were shown on MR images. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: For SC measurements intraobserver CV was 7.5 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 5.7% (Observer 3) and 5.4 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 5.1% (Observer 4). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Interobserver CV was 10.1 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 6.1%. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: The correlation between measurements with both methods was not strong (r = 0.665) and the resulting CV was 17.3 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 14.2%. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Underestimation of SC volumes could not be explained by the presence of cysts on the surface of the thyroid. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: It is concluded that MR imaging can be used for in vivo thyroid volume estimation in large multinodular goitres. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: The high precision of MR measurements makes this technique potentially useful for the evaluation of thyroid growth and non-surgical treatment for reducing goitre size. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Scintigraphic volume measurements do not suffice for this purpose. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: An additional advantage of MR imaging is the detailed anatomical information it provides with regard to mechanical complications of large goitres. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: UNLABELLED In patients with a large, multinodular goiter (> 100 g), radiation absorbed doses in the thyroid, surrounding tissues and remainder of the body were estimated after therapeutic administration of 131I(3.7 MBq or 100 microCi/g of thyroid tissue retained at 24 hr). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: METHODS Thermoluminescent dosimeter (TLD) measurements were performed on 23 patients (12 euthyroid and 1I hyperthyroid; thyroid weight 222 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 72 g; 2.1 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 0.9 GBq 131I) on the skin over the thyroid, over the submandibular gland and over the parotid gland. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Thyroid radioactivity measurements were done daily in 6 euthyroid and 6 hyperthyroid patients (thyroid weight 204 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 69 g; 1.9 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 0.9 GBq 131I). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: An iodine biokinetic model and the MIRD methodology were used to estimate absorbed doses in organs. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Cancer risks were calculated using ICRP Publication 60. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: RESULTS Cumulated absorbed doses on the skin (TLD measurements) were 4.2 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 1.4 Gy (thyroid), 1.2 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 0.6 Gy (submandibular) and 0.4 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 0.2 Gy (parotid). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: All these values were significantly correlated with the amount of radioiodine retained in the thyroid at 24 hr (euthyroid versus hyperthyroid not significant). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Absorbed doses in the thyroid of 94 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 25 Gy for euthyroid and 93 +/- Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: 17 Gy for hyperthyroid patients were calculated (thyroid radioactivity measurements). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: Extrathyroidal absorbed doses (means of 12 patients) were 0.88 Gy in the urinary bladder, 0.57 Gy in the small intestine, 0.38 Gy in the stomach, and ranged from 0.05 to 0.30 Gy in other organs (euthyroid versus hyperthyroid not significant). Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: A 1.6% life-time risk of development of cancer outside the thyroid gland was calculated. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: When applied to people of 65 yr and older the estimated risk is approximately 0.5%. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: CONCLUSION These data may help in choosing the treatment regimen for individual patients with a large, multinodular goiter, who have to be treated for hyperthyroidism or compressive problems. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: In younger patients, surgery may be preferred. Relevant:
Query: Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. Document: However, for elderly patients and patients with cardiopulmonary disease, the advantages of noninvasive radioiodine treatment will outweight the life-time risk of this mode of therapy. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: UNLABELLED Fruit and vegetable consumption has been inversely associated with the risk of chronic diseases including cancer and cardiovascular disease, with the beneficial effects attributed to a variety of protective antioxidants, carotenoids and phytonutrients. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The objective of the present study was to determine the effect of supplementation with dehydrated concentrates from mixed fruit and vegetable juices (Juice Plus+R) on serum antioxidant and folate status, plasma homocysteine levels and markers for oxidative stress and DNA damage. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Japanese subjects (n=60; age 27.8 yrs; BMI 22.1) were recruited to participate in a double-blind placebo controlled study and were randomized into 2 groups of 30, matched for sex, age, BMI and smoking status (39 males, 22 smokers; 21 females, 13 smokers). Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Subjects were given encapsulated supplements containing mixed fruit and vegetable juice concentrates or a matching placebo for 28 days, with blood and urine samples collected at baseline, day 14 and day 28 for analytical testing. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Compared with the placebo, 28 day supplementation significantly increased the concentration of serum beta-carotene 528% (p<0.0001), lycopene 80.2% (p<0.0005), and alpha tocopherol 39.5% (p<0.0001). Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Serum folate increased 174.3% (p<0.0001) and correlated with a decrease in plasma homocysteine of -19.9% (p<0.03). Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Compared with baseline, measures of oxidative stress decreased with serum lipid peroxides declining -10.5% (p<0.02) and urine 8OHdG decreasing -21.1% (p<0.02). Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Evaluation of data from smokers only (n=17) after 28 days of active supplementation showed comparable changes. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: CONCLUSION In the absence of dietary modification, supplementation with the fruit and vegetable juice concentrate capsules proved to be a highly bioavailable source of phytonutrients. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Important antioxidants were elevated to desirable levels associated with decreased risk of disease while markers of oxidative stress were reduced, and folate status improved with a concomitant decrease in homocysteine, and these benefits occurred to a similar extent in smokers when compared to non-smokers. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: High plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) concentration is reported to be a risk factor for vascular diseases. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: We investigated the extent to which serum folate and plasma tHcy respond to a high intake of natural folate from food. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Thirty-seven healthy females volunteered t o participate in a crossover dietary intervention. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The study included a baseline period and two 5-week diet periods (low- and high-folate diets) with a 3-week washout in between. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The low-folate diet contained one serving of both vegetables and fruit/d, while during the high-folate diet the subjects ate at least seven servings of vegetables, berries, and citrus fruit/d. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Serum and erythrocyte (RBC) folate, serum vitamin B (12), and plasma tHcy concentrations were measured at the base-line and at the end of each diet period. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The mean concentrations of serum and RBC folate were 11.0 (SD 3.0) nmol/l and 412 (SD 120) nmol/l at the end of the low-folate diet and 78 (95 % CI 62, 94) % and 14 (95 % CI 8, 20) % higher in response to the high-folate diet (P< 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The serum concentration of vitamin B12 remained unchanged during the intervention. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The mean plasma tHcy concentration was 8.0 pmol/ at the end of the low-folate diet and decreased by 13 (95% CI 9, 18) % in response to the high-folate diet (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: In conclusion, a diet high in fresh berries, citrus fruit, and vegetables effectively increases serum and RBC folate and decreases plasma homocysteine. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is a major nutrient-sensing pathway that, when genetically downregulated, increases life span in evolutionarily diverse organisms including mammals. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: The central component of this pathway, TOR kinase, is the target of the inhibitory drug rapamycin, a highly specific and well-described drug approved for human use. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: We show here that feeding rapamycin to adult Drosophila produces the life span extension seen in some TOR mutants. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Increase in life span by rapamycin was associated with increased resistance to both starvation and paraquat. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Analysis of the underlying mechanisms revealed that rapamycin increased longevity specifically through the TORC1 branch of the TOR pathway, through alterations to both autophagy and translation. Relevant:
Query: Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. Document: Rapamycin could increase life span of weak insulin/Igf signaling (IIS) pathway mutants and of flies with life span maximized by dietary restriction, indicating additional mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: UNLABELLED Two-component systems (TCS) comprise histidine kinases and their cognate response regulators and allow bacteria to sense and respond to a wide variety of signals. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Histidine kinases (HKs) phosphorylate and dephosphorylate their cognate response regulators (RRs) in response to stimuli. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: In general, these reactions appear to be highly specific and require an appropriate association between the HK and RR proteins. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: The Myxococcus xanthus genome encodes one of the largest repertoires of signaling proteins in bacteria (685 open reading frames [ORFs]), including at least 127 HKs and at least 143 RRs. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Of these, 27 are bona fide NtrC-family response regulators, 21 of which are encoded adjacent to their predicted cognate kinases. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Using system-wide profiling methods, we determined that the HK-NtrC RR pairs display a kinetic preference during both phosphotransfer and phosphatase functions, thereby defining cognate signaling systems in M. xanthus. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Isothermal titration calorimetry measurements indicated that cognate HK-RR pairs interact with dissociation constants (Kd) of approximately 1 µM, while noncognate pairs had no measurable binding. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Lastly, a chimera generated between the histidine kinase, CrdS, and HK1190 revealed that residues conferring phosphotransfer and phosphatase specificity dictate binding affinity, thereby establishing discrete protein-protein interactions which prevent cross talk. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: The data indicate that binding affinity is a critical parameter governing system-wide signaling fidelity for bacterial signal transduction proteins. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: IMPORTANCE Using in vitro phosphotransfer and phosphatase profiling assays and isothermal titration calorimetry, we have taken a system-wide approach to demonstrate specificity for a family of two-component signaling proteins in Myxococcus xanthus. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Our results demonstrate that previously identified specificity residues dictate binding affinity and that phosphatase specificity follows phosphotransfer specificity for cognate HK-RR pairs. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: The data indicate that preferential binding affinity is the basis for signaling fidelity in bacterial two-component systems. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Two-component signal transduction pathways comprising histidine protein kinases (HPKs) and their response regulators (RRs) are widely used to control bacterial responses to environmental challenges. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Some bacteria have over 150 different two-component pathways, and the specificity of the phosphotransfer reactions within these systems is tightly controlled to prevent unwanted crosstalk. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: One of the best understood two-component signalling pathways is the chemotaxis pathway. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Here, we present the 1.40 A crystal structure of the histidine-containing phosphotransfer domain of the chemotaxis HPK, CheA(3), in complex with its cognate RR, CheY(6). Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: A methionine finger on CheY(6) that nestles in a hydrophobic pocket in CheA(3) was shown to be important for the interaction and was found to only occur in the cognate RRs of CheA(3), CheY(6), and CheB(2). Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Site-directed mutagenesis of this methionine in combination with two adjacent residues abolished binding, as shown by surface plasmon resonance studies, and phosphotransfer from CheA(3)-P to CheY(6). Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Introduction of this methionine and an adjacent alanine residue into a range of noncognate CheYs, dramatically changed their specificity, allowing protein interaction and rapid phosphotransfer from CheA(3)-P. The structure presented here has allowed us to identify specificity determinants for the CheA-CheY interaction and subsequently to successfully reengineer phosphotransfer signalling. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: In summary, our results provide valuable insight into how cells mediate specificity in one of the most abundant signalling pathways in biology, two-component signal transduction. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: The RNA-guided DNA endonuclease Cas9 is a powerful tool for genome editing. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Little is known about the kinetics and fidelity of the double-strand break (DSB) repair process that follows a Cas9 cutting event in living cells. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Here, we developed a strategy to measure the kinetics of DSB repair for single loci in human cells. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Quantitative modeling of repaired DNA in time series after Cas9 activation reveals variable and often slow repair rates, with half-life times up to ∼10 hr. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Furthermore, repair of the DSBs tends to be error prone. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Both classical and microhomology-mediated end joining pathways contribute to the erroneous repair. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Estimation of their individual rate constants indicates that the balance between these two pathways changes over time and can be altered by additional ionizing radiation. Relevant:
Query: Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems Document: Our approach provides quantitative insights into DSB repair kinetics and fidelity in single loci and indicates that Cas9-induced DSBs are repaired in an unusual manner. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Studies with mice lacking the common plasma membrane receptor for type I interferon (IFN-αβR(-)(/)(-)) have revealed that IFN signaling restricts tropism, dissemination, and lethality after infection with West Nile virus (WNV) or several other pathogenic viruses. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: However, the specific functions of individual IFN subtypes remain uncertain. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Here, using IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice, we defined the antiviral and immunomodulatory function of this IFN subtype in restricting viral infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice were more vulnerable to WNV infection than wild-type mice, succumbing more quickly and with greater overall mortality, although the phenotype was less severe than that of IFN-αβR(-)(/)(-) mice. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: The increased susceptibility of IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice was accompanied by enhanced viral replication in different tissues. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Consistent with a direct role for IFN-β in control of WNV replication, viral titers in ex vivo cultures of macrophages, dendritic cells, fibroblasts, and cerebellar granule cell neurons, but not cortical neurons, from IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice were greater than in wild-type cells. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Although detailed immunological analysis revealed no major deficits in the quality or quantity of WNV-specific antibodies or CD8(+) T cells, we observed an altered CD4(+) CD25(+) FoxP3(+) regulatory T cell response, with greater numbers after infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Collectively, these results suggest that IFN-β controls WNV pathogenesis by restricting infection in key cell types and by modulating T cell regulatory networks. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Although susceptibility of neurons in the brain to microbial infection is a major determinant of clinical outcome, little is known about the molecular factors governing this vulnerability. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Here we show that two types of neurons from distinct brain regions showed differential permissivity to replication of several positive-stranded RNA viruses. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Granule cell neurons of the cerebellum and cortical neurons from the cerebral cortex have unique innate immune programs that confer differential susceptibility to viral infection ex vivo and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: By transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs; Ifi27, Irg1 and Rsad2 (also known as Viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Moreover, we found that the epigenetic state and microRNA (miRNA)-mediated regulation of ISGs correlates with enhanced antiviral response in granule cell neurons. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Thus, neurons from evolutionarily distinct brain regions have unique innate immune signatures, which probably contribute to their relative permissiveness to infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: West Nile virus (WNV) is a major cause of mosquito-borne illness in the United States. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Human disease ranges from mild febrile illness to severe fatal neurologic infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Adults aged >60 years are more susceptible to neuroinvasive disease accompanied by a high mortality rate or long-lasting neurologic sequelae. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: A chimeric live attenuated West Nile virus vaccine, rWN/DEN4&Dgr;30, was shown to be safe and immunogenic in healthy adults aged 18–50 years. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: This study evaluated rWN/DEN4&Dgr;30 in flavivirus-naive adults aged 50–65 years and found it to be safe and immunogenic. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Outbreaks of WNV infection tend to be unpredictable, and a safe and effective vaccine will be an important public health tool. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Studies with mice lacking the common plasma membrane receptor for type I interferon (IFN-αβR(-)(/)(-)) have revealed that IFN signaling restricts tropism, dissemination, and lethality after infection with West Nile virus (WNV) or several other pathogenic viruses. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: However, the specific functions of individual IFN subtypes remain uncertain. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Here, using IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice, we defined the antiviral and immunomodulatory function of this IFN subtype in restricting viral infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice were more vulnerable to WNV infection than wild-type mice, succumbing more quickly and with greater overall mortality, although the phenotype was less severe than that of IFN-αβR(-)(/)(-) mice. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: The increased susceptibility of IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice was accompanied by enhanced viral replication in different tissues. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Consistent with a direct role for IFN-β in control of WNV replication, viral titers in ex vivo cultures of macrophages, dendritic cells, fibroblasts, and cerebellar granule cell neurons, but not cortical neurons, from IFN-β(-)(/)(-) mice were greater than in wild-type cells. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Although detailed immunological analysis revealed no major deficits in the quality or quantity of WNV-specific antibodies or CD8(+) T cells, we observed an altered CD4(+) CD25(+) FoxP3(+) regulatory T cell response, with greater numbers after infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Collectively, these results suggest that IFN-β controls WNV pathogenesis by restricting infection in key cell types and by modulating T cell regulatory networks. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Although susceptibility of neurons in the brain to microbial infection is a major determinant of clinical outcome, little is known about the molecular factors governing this vulnerability. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Here we show that two types of neurons from distinct brain regions showed differential permissivity to replication of several positive-stranded RNA viruses. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Granule cell neurons of the cerebellum and cortical neurons from the cerebral cortex have unique innate immune programs that confer differential susceptibility to viral infection ex vivo and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: By transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs; Ifi27, Irg1 and Rsad2 (also known as Viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Moreover, we found that the epigenetic state and microRNA (miRNA)-mediated regulation of ISGs correlates with enhanced antiviral response in granule cell neurons. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Thus, neurons from evolutionarily distinct brain regions have unique innate immune signatures, which probably contribute to their relative permissiveness to infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: West Nile virus (WNV) is a major cause of mosquito-borne illness in the United States. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Human disease ranges from mild febrile illness to severe fatal neurologic infection. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Adults aged >60 years are more susceptible to neuroinvasive disease accompanied by a high mortality rate or long-lasting neurologic sequelae. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: A chimeric live attenuated West Nile virus vaccine, rWN/DEN4&Dgr;30, was shown to be safe and immunogenic in healthy adults aged 18–50 years. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: This study evaluated rWN/DEN4&Dgr;30 in flavivirus-naive adults aged 50–65 years and found it to be safe and immunogenic. Relevant:
Query: Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. Document: Outbreaks of WNV infection tend to be unpredictable, and a safe and effective vaccine will be an important public health tool. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: In this study, we describe the 3D chromosome regulatory landscape of human naive and primed embryonic stem cells. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: To devise this map, we identified transcriptional enhancers and insulators in these cells and placed them within the context of cohesin-associated CTCF-CTCF loops using cohesin ChIA-PET data. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: The CTCF-CTCF loops we identified form a chromosomal framework of insulated neighborhoods, which in turn form topologically associating domains (TADs) that are largely preserved during the transition between the naive and primed states. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: Regulatory changes in enhancer-promoter interactions occur within insulated neighborhoods during cell state transition. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: The CTCF anchor regions we identified are conserved across species, influence gene expression, and are a frequent site of mutations in cancer cells, underscoring their functional importance in cellular regulation. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: These 3D regulatory maps of human pluripotent cells therefore provide a foundation for future interrogation of the relationships between chromosome structure and gene control in development and disease. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: Recent studies have shown that the protein CTCF, which plays an important role in insulation and in large-scale organization of chromatin within the eukaryotic nucleus, depends for both activities on recruitment of the cohesin complex. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: We show here that the interaction of CTCF with the cohesin complex involves direct contacts between the cohesin subunit SA2 and specific regions of the C-terminal tail of CTCF. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: All other cohesin components are recruited through their interaction with SA2. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: Expression in vivo of CTCF mutants lacking the C-terminal domain, or with mutations at sites within it required for SA2 binding, disrupts the normal expression profile of the imprinted genes IGF2-H19 and also results in a loss of insulation activity. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: Taken together, our results demonstrate that specific sites on the C terminus of CTCF are essential for cohesin binding and insulator function. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: The only direct interaction between CTCF and cohesin involves contact with SA2, which is external to the cohesin ring. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: This suggests that in recruiting cohesin to CTCF, SA2 could bind first and the ring could assemble subsequently. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: It is thought that the H19 imprinting control region (ICR) directs the silencing of the maternally inherited Igf2 allele through a CTCF-dependent chromatin insulator. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: The ICR has been shown to interact physically with a silencer region in Igf2, differentially methylated region (DMR)1, but the role of CTCF in this chromatin loop and whether it restricts the physical access of distal enhancers to Igf2 is not known. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: We performed systematic chromosome conformation capture analyses in the Igf2/H19 region over >160 kb, identifying sequences that interact physically with the distal enhancers and the ICR. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: We found that, on the paternal chromosome, enhancers interact with the Igf2 promoters but that, on the maternal allele, this is prevented by CTCF binding within the H19 ICR. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: CTCF binding in the maternal ICR regulates its interaction with matrix attachment region (MAR)3 and DMR1 at Igf2, thus forming a tight loop around the maternal Igf2 locus, which may contribute to its silencing. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: Mutation of CTCF binding sites in the H19 ICR leads to loss of CTCF binding and de novo methylation of a CTCF target site within Igf2 DMR1, showing that CTCF can coordinate regional epigenetic marks. Relevant:
Query: Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. Document: This systematic chromosome conformation capture analysis of an imprinting cluster reveals that CTCF has a critical role in the epigenetic regulation of higher-order chromatin structure and gene silencing over considerable distances in the genome. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: BACKGROUND Type 1 diabetes results from T-cell-mediated destruction of β cells. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Findings from preclinical studies and pilot clinical trials suggest that antithymocyte globulin (ATG) might be effective for reducing this autoimmune response. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: We assessed the safety and efficacy of rabbit ATG in preserving islet function in participants with recent-onset type 1 diabetes, and report here our 12-month results. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: METHODS For this phase 2, randomised, placebo-controlled, clinical trial, we enrolled patients with recent-onset type 1 diabetes, aged 12-35 years, and with a peak C-peptide of 0.4 nM or greater on mixed meal tolerance test from 11 sites in the USA. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: We used a computer generated randomisation sequence to randomly assign patients (2:1, with permuted-blocks of size three or six and stratified by study site) to receive either 6.5 mg/kg ATG or placebo over a course of four days. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: All participants were masked and initially managed by an unmasked drug management team, which managed all aspects of the study until month 3. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Thereafter, to maintain masking for diabetes management throughout the remainder of the study, participants received diabetes management from an independent, masked study physician and nurse educator. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: The primary endpoint was the baseline-adjusted change in 2-h area under the curve C-peptide response to mixed meal tolerance test from baseline to 12 months. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Analyses were by intention to treat. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: This is a planned interim analysis of an on-going trial that will run for 24 months of follow-up. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00515099. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: FINDINGS Between Sept 10, 2007, and June 1, 2011, we screened 154 individuals, randomly allocating 38 to ATG and 20 to placebo. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: We recorded no between-group difference in the primary endpoint: participants in the ATG group had a mean change in C-peptide area under the curve of -0.195 pmol/mL (95% CI -0.292 to -0.098) and those in the placebo group had a mean change of -0.239 pmol/mL (-0.361 to -0.118) in the placebo group (p=0.591). Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: All except one participant in the ATG group had both cytokine release syndrome and serum sickness, which was associated with a transient rise in interleukin-6 and acute-phase proteins. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Acute T cell depletion occurred in the ATG group, with slow reconstitution over 12 months. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: However, effector memory T cells were not depleted, and the ratio of regulatory to effector memory T cells declined in the first 6 months and stabilised thereafter. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: ATG-treated patients had 159 grade 3-4 adverse events, many associated with T-cell depletion, compared with 13 in the placebo group, but we detected no between-group difference in incidence of infectious diseases. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: INTERPRETATION Our findings suggest that a brief course of ATG does not result in preservation of β-cell function 12 months later in patients with new-onset type 1 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Generalised T-cell depletion in the absence of specific depletion of effector memory T cells and preservation of regulatory T cells seems to be an ineffective treatment for type 1 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Numerous reports have demonstrated that CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) from individuals with a range of human autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes, are deficient in their ability to control autologous proinflammatory responses when compared with nondiseased, control individuals. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Treg dysfunction could be a primary, causal event or may result from perturbations in the immune system during disease development. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Polymorphisms in genes associated with Treg function, such as IL2RA, confer a higher risk of autoimmune disease. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Although this suggests a primary role for defective Tregs in autoimmunity, a link between IL2RA gene polymorphisms and Treg function has not been examined. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: We addressed this by examining the impact of an IL2RA haplotype associated with type 1 diabetes on Treg fitness and suppressive function. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Studies were conducted using healthy human subjects to avoid any confounding effects of disease. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: We demonstrated that the presence of an autoimmune disease-associated IL2RA haplotype correlates with diminished IL-2 responsiveness in Ag-experienced CD4(+) T cells, as measured by phosphorylation of STAT5a, and is associated with lower levels of FOXP3 expression by Tregs and a reduction in their ability to suppress proliferation of autologous effector T cells. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: These data offer a rationale that contributes to the molecular and cellular mechanisms through which polymorphisms in the IL-2RA gene affect immune regulation, and consequently upon susceptibility to autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: BACKGROUND Type 1 diabetes mellitus is a chronic autoimmune disease caused by the pathogenic action of T lymphocytes on insulin-producing beta cells. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Previous clinical studies have shown that continuous immune suppression temporarily slows the loss of insulin production. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Preclinical studies suggested that a monoclonal antibody against CD3 could reverse hyperglycemia at presentation and induce tolerance to recurrent disease. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: METHODS We studied the effects of a nonactivating humanized monoclonal antibody against CD3--hOKT3gamma1(Ala-Ala)--on the loss of insulin production in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Within 6 weeks after diagnosis, 24 patients were randomly assigned to receive either a single 14-day course of treatment with the monoclonal antibody or no antibody and were studied during the first year of disease. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: RESULTS Treatment with the monoclonal antibody maintained or improved insulin production after one year in 9 of the 12 patients in the treatment group, whereas only 2 of the 12 controls had a sustained response (P=0.01). Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: The treatment effect on insulin responses lasted for at least 12 months after diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Glycosylated hemoglobin levels and insulin doses were also reduced in the monoclonal-antibody group. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: No severe side effects occurred, and the most common side effects were fever, rash, and anemia. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: Clinical responses were associated with a change in the ratio of CD4+ T cells to CD8+ T cells 30 and 90 days after treatment. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: CONCLUSIONS Treatment with hOKT3gamma1(Ala-Ala) mitigates the deterioration in insulin production and improves metabolic control during the first year of type 1 diabetes mellitus in the majority of patients. Relevant:
Query: Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. Document: The mechanism of action of the anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody may involve direct effects on pathogenic T cells, the induction of populations of regulatory cells, or both. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: INO80 is an evolutionarily conserved, ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling enzyme that plays roles in transcription, DNA repair, and replication. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Here, we show that yeast INO80 facilitates these diverse processes at least in part by controlling genome-wide distribution of the histone variant H2A.Z. In the absence of INO80, H2A.Z nucleosomes are mislocalized, and H2A.Z levels at promoters show reduced responsiveness to transcriptional changes, suggesting that INO80 controls H2A.Z dynamics. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Additionally, we demonstrate that INO80 has a histone-exchange activity in which the enzyme can replace nucleosomal H2A.Z/H2B with free H2A/H2B dimers. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Genetic interactions between ino80 and htz1 support a model in which INO80 catalyzes the removal of unacetylated H2A.Z from chromatin as a mechanism to promote genome stability. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Histone variant H2A.Z-containing nucleosomes are incorporated at most eukaryotic promoters. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: This incorporation is mediated by the conserved SWR1 complex, which replaces histone H2A in canonical nucleosomes with H2A.Z in an ATP-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Here, we show that promoter-proximal nucleosomes are highly heterogeneous for H2A.Z in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, with substantial representation of nucleosomes containing one, two, or zero H2A.Z molecules. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: SWR1-catalyzed H2A.Z replacement in vitro occurs in a stepwise and unidirectional fashion, one H2A.Z-H2B dimer at a time, producing heterotypic nucleosomes as intermediates and homotypic H2A.Z nucleosomes as end products. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: The ATPase activity of SWR1 is specifically stimulated by H2A-containing nucleosomes without ensuing histone H2A eviction. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Remarkably, further addition of free H2A.Z-H2B dimer leads to hyperstimulation of ATPase activity, eviction of nucleosomal H2A-H2B, and deposition of H2A.Z-H2B. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: These results suggest that the combination of H2A-containing nucleosome and free H2A.Z-H2B dimer acting as both effector and substrate for SWR1 governs the specificity and outcome of the replacement reaction. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Nucleosomes containing the histone variant H3.3 tend to be clustered in vivo in the neighborhood of transcriptionally active genes and over regulatory elements. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: It has not been clear, however, whether H3.3-containing nucleosomes possess unique properties that would affect transcription. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: We report here that H3.3 nucleosomes isolated from vertebrates, regardless of whether they are partnered with H2A or H2A.Z, are unusually sensitive to salt-dependent disruption, losing H2A/H2B or H2A.Z/H2B dimers. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Immunoprecipitation studies of nucleosome core particles (NCPs) show that NCPs that contain both H3.3 and H2A.Z are even less stable than NCPs containing H3.3 and H2A. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Intriguingly, NCPs containing H3 and H2A.Z are at least as stable as H3/H2A NCPs. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: These results establish an hierarchy of stabilities for native nucleosomes carrying different complements of variants, and suggest how H2A.Z could play different roles depending on its partners within the NCP. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: They also are consistent with the idea that H3.3 plays an active role in maintaining accessible chromatin structures in enhancer regions and transcribed regions. Relevant:
Query: Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. Document: Consistent with this idea, promoters and enhancers at transcriptionally active genes and coding regions at highly expressed genes have nucleosomes that simultaneously carry both H3.3 and H2A.Z, and should therefore be extremely sensitive to disruption. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Ribosome biogenesis and protein synthesis are two of the most energy consuming processes in a growing cell. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Moreover, defects in their molecular components can alter the pattern of gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Thus it is understandable that cells have developed a surveillance system to monitor the status of the translational machinery. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Recent discoveries of causative mutations and deletions in genes linked to ribosome biogenesis have defined a group of similar pathologies termed ribosomopathies. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Over the past decade, much has been learned regarding the relationship between growth control and ribosome biogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: The discovery of extra-ribosomal functions of several ribosome proteins and their regulation of p53 levels has provided a link from ribosome impairment to cell cycle regulation. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Yet, evidence suggesting p53 and/or Hdm2 independent pathways also exists. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: In this review, we summarize recent advances in understanding the mechanisms underlying the pathologies of ribosomopathies and discuss the relationship between ribosome production and tumorigenesis. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: The production of ribosomes is ubiquitous and fundamental to life. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: As such, it is surprising that defects in ribosome biogenesis underlie a growing number of symptomatically distinct inherited disorders, collectively called ribosomopathies. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: We previously determined that the nucleolar protein, NOL11, is essential for optimal pre-rRNA transcription and processing in human tissue culture cells. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: However, the role of NOL11 in the development of a multicellular organism remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Here, we reveal a critical function for NOL11 in vertebrate ribosome biogenesis and craniofacial development. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Nol11 is strongly expressed in the developing cranial neural crest (CNC) of both amphibians and mammals, and knockdown of Xenopus nol11 results in impaired pre-rRNA transcription and processing, increased apoptosis, and abnormal development of the craniofacial cartilages. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Inhibition of p53 rescues this skeletal phenotype, but not the underlying ribosome biogenesis defect, demonstrating an evolutionarily conserved control mechanism through which ribosome-impaired craniofacial cells are removed. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Excessive activation of this mechanism impairs craniofacial development. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Together, our findings reveal a novel requirement for Nol11 in craniofacial development, present the first frog model of a ribosomopathy, and provide further insight into the clinically important relationship between specific ribosome biogenesis proteins and craniofacial cell survival. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Ribosomopathies compose a collection of disorders in which genetic abnormalities cause impaired ribosome biogenesis and function, resulting in specific clinical phenotypes. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Congenital mutations in RPS19 and other genes encoding ribosomal proteins cause Diamond-Blackfan anemia, a disorder characterized by hypoplastic, macrocytic anemia. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Mutations in other genes required for normal ribosome biogenesis have been implicated in other rare congenital syndromes, Schwachman-Diamond syndrome, dyskeratosis congenita, cartilage hair hypoplasia, and Treacher Collins syndrome. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: In addition, the 5q- syndrome, a subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome, is caused by a somatically acquired deletion of chromosome 5q, which leads to haploinsufficiency of the ribosomal protein RPS14 and an erythroid phenotype highly similar to Diamond-Blackfan anemia. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Acquired abnormalities in ribosome function have been implicated more broadly in human malignancies. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: The p53 pathway provides a surveillance mechanism for protein translation as well as genome integrity and is activated by defects in ribosome biogenesis; this pathway appears to be a critical mediator of many of the clinical features of ribosomopathies. Relevant:
Query: Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. Document: Elucidation of the mechanisms whereby selective abnormalities in ribosome biogenesis cause specific clinical syndromes will hopefully lead to novel therapeutic strategies for these diseases. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: S-nitrosylation of proteins by nitric oxide is a major mode of signalling in cells. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: S-nitrosylation can mediate the regulation of a range of proteins, including prominent nuclear proteins, such as HDAC2 (ref. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: 2) and PARP1 (ref. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: 3). Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: The high reactivity of the nitric oxide group with protein thiols, but the selective nature of nitrosylation within the cell, implies the existence of targeting mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Specificity of nitric oxide signalling is often achieved by the binding of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) to target proteins, either directly or through scaffolding proteins such as PSD-95 (ref. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: 5) and CAPON. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: As the three principal isoforms of NOS--neuronal NOS (nNOS), endothelial NOS (eNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS)--are primarily non-nuclear, the mechanisms by which nuclear proteins are selectively nitrosylated have been elusive. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is physiologically nitrosylated at its Cys 150 residue. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Nitrosylated GAPDH (SNO-GAPDH) binds to Siah1, which possesses a nuclear localization signal, and is transported to the nucleus. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Here, we show that SNO-GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates nuclear proteins, including the deacetylating enzyme sirtuin-1 (SIRT1), histone deacetylase-2 (HDAC2) and DNA-activated protein kinase (DNA-PK). Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Our findings reveal a novel mechanism for targeted nitrosylation of nuclear proteins and suggest that protein-protein transfer of nitric oxide groups may be a general mechanism in cellular signal transduction. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Multiple roles for glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) have been recently appreciated. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: In addition to the cytoplasm where the majority of GAPDH is located under the basal condition, GAPDH is also found in the particulate fractions, such as the nucleus, the mitochondria, and the small vesicular fractions. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: When cells are exposed to various stressors, dynamic subcellular re-distribution of GAPDH occurs. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Here we review these multifunctional properties of GAPDH, especially linking them to its oligomerization, posttranslational modification, and subcellular localization. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: This includes mechanistic descriptions of how S-nitrosylation of GAPDH under oxidative stress may lead to cell death/dysfunction via nuclear translocation of GAPDH, which is counteracted by a cytosolic GOSPEL. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: GAPDH is also involved in various diseases, especially neurodegenerative disorders and cancers. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Therapeutic strategies to these conditions based on molecular understanding of GAPDH are discussed. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Nitric oxide (NO) has been linked to numerous physiological and pathophysiological events that are not readily explained by the well established effects of NO on soluble guanylyl cyclase. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Exogenous NO S-nitrosylates cysteine residues in proteins, but whether this is an important function of endogenous NO is unclear. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Here, using a new proteomic approach, we identify a population of proteins that are endogenously S-nitrosylated, and demonstrate the loss of this modification in mice harbouring a genomic deletion of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS). Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: Targets of NO include metabolic, structural and signalling proteins that may be effectors for neuronally generated NO. Relevant:
Query: S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. Document: These findings establish protein S-nitrosylation as a physiological signalling mechanism for nNOS. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: CONTEXT Sexual dysfunction is a common adverse effect of antidepressants that frequently results in treatment noncompliance. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess the efficacy of sildenafil citrate in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of selective and nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) antidepressants. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Prospective, parallel-group, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted between November 1, 2000, and January 1, 2001, at 3 US university medical centers among 90 male outpatients (mean [SD] age, 45 [8] years) with major depression in remission and sexual dysfunction associated with SRI antidepressant treatment. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: INTERVENTION Patients were randomly assigned to take sildenafil (n = 45) or placebo (n = 45) at a flexible dose starting at 50 mg and adjustable to 100 mg before sexual activity for 6 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary outcome measure was score on the Clinical Global Impression-Sexual Function (CGI-SF); secondary measures were scores on the International Index of Erectile Function, Arizona Sexual Experience Scale, Massachusetts General Hospital-Sexual Functioning Questionnaire, and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: RESULTS Among the 90 randomized patients, 93% (83/89) of patients treated per protocol took at least 1 dose of study drug and 85% (76/89) completed week 6 end-point assessments with last observation carried forward analyses. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: At a CGI-SF score of 2 or lower, 54.5% (24/44) of sildenafil compared with 4.4% (2/45) of placebo patients were much or very much improved (P<.001). Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Erectile function, arousal, ejaculation, orgasm, and overall satisfaction domain measures improved significantly in sildenafil compared with placebo patients. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Mean depression scores remained consistent with remission (HAM-D score < or =10) in both groups for the study duration. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: CONCLUSION In our study, sildenafil effectively improved erectile function and other aspects of sexual function in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of SRI antidepressants. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: These improvements may allow patients to maintain adherence with effective antidepressant treatment. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Sexual health severely decreases with age. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: For males older than 40 years, erectile dysfunction (ED) is the most common sexual disorder. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Although physical and psychological risk factors for ED have been identified, protective factors are yet to be determined. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: To date, no study has examined endocrine and psychosocial factors in parallel with regard to their modifying effect on the age-related increase in ED. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Two hundred and seventy-one self-reporting healthy men aged between 40 and 75 years provided both psychometric data on sexual function and a set of potential psychosocial protective factors, and saliva samples for the analysis of steroid hormones and proinflammatory cytokines. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Around 35% of the participants reported at least a mild form of ED. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Direct associations with ED were identified for perceived general health, emotional support, relationship quality, intimacy motivation but not for steroid hormones or proinflammatory markers. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Moderation analyses for the association between age and ED revealed positive effects for testosterone (T), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), perceived general health, emotional support, intimacy motivation, and a negative effect for interleukin-6 (all p < .05; f2 > .17). Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Group differences between older men with and without ED emerged for T, DHEA, and psychometric measures such as perceived general health, emotional support, satisfaction with life, and intimacy motivation (all p < .05; d > .3). Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Both psychosocial and endocrine parameters moderated the association between age and sexual health. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Perceived general health, emotional support, intimacy motivation, and relationship quality emerged as psychosocial protective factors against ED. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Higher T and DHEA and lower interleukin-6 levels also buffered against an age-related increase in ED. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Background: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) are widely used in medical practice. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: They have been associated with a broad range of symptoms, whose clinical meaning has not been fully appreciated. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Methods: The PRISMA guidelines were followed to conduct a systematic review of the literature. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Titles, abstracts, and topics were searched using the following terms: ‘withdrawal symptoms' OR ‘withdrawal syndrome' OR ‘discontinuation syndrome' OR ‘discontinuation symptoms', AND ‘SSRI' OR ‘serotonin' OR ‘antidepressant' OR ‘paroxetine' OR ‘fluoxetine' OR ‘sertraline' OR ‘fluvoxamine' OR ‘citalopram' OR ‘escitalopram'. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: The electronic research literature databases included CINAHL, the Cochrane Library, PubMed and Web-of-Science from inception of each database to July 2014. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Results: Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: There were 15 randomized controlled studies, 4 open trials, 4 retrospective investigations, and 38 case reports. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: The prevalence of the syndrome was variable, and its estimation was hindered by a lack of case identification in many studies. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Symptoms typically occur within a few days from drug discontinuation and last a few weeks, also with gradual tapering. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: However, many variations are possible, including late onset and/or longer persistence of disturbances. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Symptoms may be easily misidentified as signs of impending relapse. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: Conclusions: Clinicians need to add SSRI to the list of drugs potentially inducing withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation, together with benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and other psychotropic drugs. Relevant:
Query: Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. Document: The term ‘discontinuation syndrome' that is currently used minimizes the potential vulnerabilities induced by SSRI and should be replaced by ‘withdrawal syndrome'. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and other carcinomas are hierarchically organized, with cancer stem cells (CSC) residing at the top of the hierarchy, where they drive tumor progression, metastasis, and chemoresistance. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: As CSC and non-CSC share an identical genetic background, we hypothesize that differences in epigenetics account for the striking functional differences between these two cell populations. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation, play an important role in maintaining pluripotency and regulating the differentiation of stem cells, but the role of DNA methylation in pancreatic CSC is obscure. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: In this study, we investigated the genome-wide DNA methylation profile of PDAC CSC, and we determined the importance of DNA methyltransferases for CSC maintenance and tumorigenicity. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Using high-throughput methylation analysis, we discovered that sorted CSCs have a higher level of DNA methylation, regardless of the heterogeneity or polyclonality of the CSC populations present in the tumors analyzed. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Mechanistically, CSC expressed higher DNMT1 levels than non-CSC. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Pharmacologic or genetic targeting of DNMT1 in CSCs reduced their self-renewal and in vivo tumorigenic potential, defining DNMT1 as a candidate CSC therapeutic target. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: The inhibitory effect we observed was mediated in part through epigenetic reactivation of previously silenced miRNAs, in particular the miR-17-92 cluster. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Together, our findings indicate that DNA methylation plays an important role in CSC biology and also provide a rationale to develop epigenetic modulators to target CSC plasticity and improve the poor outcome of PDAC patients. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Cancer Res; 76(15); 4546-58. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: ©2016 AACR. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Aberrant gene silencing accompanied by DNA methylation is associated with neoplastic progression in many tumors that also show global loss of DNA methylation. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Using conditional inactivation of de novo methyltransferase Dnmt3b in Apc(Min/+) mice, we demonstrate that the loss of Dnmt3b has no impact on microadenoma formation, which is considered the earliest stage of intestinal tumor formation. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Nevertheless, we observed a significant decrease in the formation of macroscopic colonic adenomas. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Interestingly, many large adenomas showed regions with Dnmt3b inactivation, indicating that Dnmt3b is required for initial outgrowth of macroscopic adenomas but is not required for their maintenance. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: These results support a role for Dnmt3b in the transition stage between microadenoma formation and macroscopic colonic tumor growth and further suggest that Dnmt3b, and by extension de novo methylation, is not required for maintaining tumor growth after this transition stage has occurred. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Although aberrant DNA methylation is considered to be one of the key ways by which tumor-suppressor and DNA-repair genes are silenced during tumor initiation and progression, the mechanisms underlying DNA methylation alterations in cancer remain unclear. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: Here we show that prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) silences certain tumor-suppressor and DNA-repair genes through DNA methylation to promote tumor growth. Relevant:
Query: Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. Document: These findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for PGE(2) in the promotion of tumor progression. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Modification of proteins by SUMO is essential for the maintenance of genome integrity. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: During DNA replication, the Mms21-branch of the SUMO pathway counteracts recombination intermediates at damaged replication forks, thus facilitating sister chromatid disjunction. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: The Mms21 SUMO ligase docks to the arm region of the Smc5 protein in the Smc5/6 complex; together, they cooperate during recombinational DNA repair. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Yet how the activity of the SUMO ligase is controlled remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Here we show that the SUMO ligase and the chromosome disjunction functions of Mms21 depend on its docking to an intact and active Smc5/6 complex, indicating that the Smc5/6-Mms21 complex operates as a large SUMO ligase in vivo. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: In spite of the physical distance separating the E3 and the nucleotide-binding domains in Smc5/6, Mms21-dependent sumoylation requires binding of ATP to Smc5, a step that is part of the ligase mechanism that assists Ubc9 function. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: The communication is enabled by the presence of a conserved disruption in the coiled coil domain of Smc5, pointing to potential conformational changes for SUMO ligase activation. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: In accordance, scanning force microscopy of the Smc5-Mms21 heterodimer shows that the molecule is physically remodeled in an ATP-dependent manner. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Our results demonstrate that the ATP-binding activity of the Smc5/6 complex is coordinated with its SUMO ligase, through the coiled coil domain of Smc5 and the physical remodeling of the molecule, to promote sumoylation and chromosome disjunction during DNA repair. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Most cancer cells activate telomerase to elongate telomeres and achieve unlimited replicative potential. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Some cancer cells cannot activate telomerase and use telomere homologous recombination (HR) to elongate telomeres, a mechanism termed alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: A hallmark of ALT cells is the recruitment of telomeres to PML bodies (termed APBs). Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Here, we show that the SMC5/6 complex localizes to APBs in ALT cells and is required for targeting telomeres to APBs. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: The MMS21 SUMO ligase of the SMC5/6 complex SUMOylates multiple telomere-binding proteins, including TRF1 and TRF2. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Inhibition of TRF1 or TRF2 SUMOylation prevents APB formation. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Depletion of SMC5/6 subunits by RNA interference inhibits telomere HR, causing telomere shortening and senescence in ALT cells. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Thus, the SMC5/6 complex facilitates telomere HR and elongation in ALT cells by promoting APB formation through SUMOylation of telomere-binding proteins. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: Hepatitis B X protein (HBx) plays an essential role in the hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication cycle, but the function of HBx has been elusive until recently. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: It was recently shown that transcription from the HBV genome (covalently-closed circular DNA, cccDNA) is inhibited by the structural maintenance of chromosome 5/6 complex (Smc5/6), and that a key function of HBx is to redirect the DNA-damage binding protein 1 (DDB1) E3 ubiquitin ligase to target this complex for degradation. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: By doing so, HBx alleviates transcriptional repression by Smc5/6 and stimulates HBV gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: In this review, we discuss in detail how the interplay between HBx and Smc5/6 was identified and characterized. Relevant:
Query: Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. Document: We also discuss what is known regarding the repression of cccDNA transcription by Smc5/6, the timing of HBx expression, and the potential role of HBx in promoting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Statins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: In clinical trials, statins are beneficial in the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: However, the overall benefits observed with statins appear to be greater than what might be expected from changes in lipid levels alone, suggesting effects beyond cholesterol lowering. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Indeed, recent studies indicate that some of the cholesterol-independent or "pleiotropic" effects of statins involve improving endothelial function, enhancing the stability of atherosclerotic plaques, decreasing oxidative stress and inflammation, and inhibiting the thrombogenic response. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Furthermore, statins have beneficial extrahepatic effects on the immune system, CNS, and bone. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Many of these pleiotropic effects are mediated by inhibition of isoprenoids, which serve as lipid attachments for intracellular signaling molecules. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: In particular, inhibition of small GTP-binding proteins, Rho, Ras, and Rac, whose proper membrane localization and function are dependent on isoprenylation, may play an important role in mediating the pleiotropic effects of statins. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: CONTEXT Gallstone disease is a leading cause of morbidity in western countries and carries a high economic burden. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Statins decrease hepatic cholesterol biosynthesis and may therefore lower the risk of cholesterol gallstones by reducing the cholesterol concentration in the bile. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Data on this association in humans are scarce. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: OBJECTIVE To study the association between the use of statins, fibrates, or other lipid-lowering agents and the risk of incident gallstone disease followed by cholecystectomy. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Case-control analysis using the UK-based General Practice Research Database. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Incident patients between 1994 and 2008 and 4 controls per each patient were identified and matched on age, sex, general practice, calendar time, and years of history in the database. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: The study population was 76% women and the mean (SD) age was 53.4 (15.0) years at the index date. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratio (OR) of developing gallstones followed by cholecystectomy in relation to exposure to lipid-lowering agents, stratified by exposure timing and duration. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: The ORs and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were adjusted for smoking, body mass index, ischemic heart disease, stroke, and estrogen use. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE The adjusted OR (AOR) for developing gallstone disease followed by cholecystectomy in relation to exposure to lipid-lowering agents. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: RESULTS A total of 27,035 patients with cholecystectomy and 106,531 matched controls were identified, including 2396 patients and 8868 controls who had statin use. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Compared with nonuse, current statin use (last prescription recorded within 90 days before the first-time diagnosis of the disease) was 1.0% for patients and 0.8% for controls (AOR, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.95-1.27) for 1 to 4 prescriptions; 2.6% vs 2.4% (AOR, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.77-0.93) for 5 to 19 prescriptions, and 3.2% vs 3.7% (AOR, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.59-0.70) for 20 or more prescriptions. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: The AORs for current use of statins defined as 20 or more prescriptions were similar (around 0.6) across age, sex, and body mass index categories, and across the statin class. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: CONCLUSION Long-term use of statins was associated with a decreased risk of gallstones followed by cholecystectomy. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: IMPORTANCE The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) cholesterol treatment guidelines have wide-scale implications for treating adults without history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) with statins. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: OBJECTIVE To estimate the cost-effectiveness of various 10-year ASCVD risk thresholds that could be used in the ACC/AHA cholesterol treatment guidelines. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Microsimulation model, including lifetime time horizon, US societal perspective, 3% discount rate for costs, and health outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: In the model, hypothetical individuals from a representative US population aged 40 to 75 years received statin treatment, experienced ASCVD events, and died from ASCVD-related or non-ASCVD-related causes based on ASCVD natural history and statin treatment parameters. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Data sources for model parameters included National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, large clinical trials and meta-analyses for statin benefits and treatment, and other published sources. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Estimated ASCVD events prevented and incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: RESULTS In the base-case scenario, the current ASCVD threshold of 7.5% or higher, which was estimated to be associated with 48% of adults treated with statins, had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $37,000/QALY compared with a 10% or higher threshold. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: More lenient ASCVD thresholds of 4.0% or higher (61% of adults treated) and 3.0% or higher (67% of adults treated) had ICERs of $81,000/QALY and $140,000/QALY, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Shifting from a 7.5% or higher ASCVD risk threshold to a 3.0% or higher ASCVD risk threshold was estimated to be associated with an additional 161,560 cardiovascular disease events averted. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: Cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to changes in the disutility associated with taking a pill daily, statin price, and the risk of statin-induced diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, there was a higher than 93% chance that the optimal ASCVD threshold was 5.0% or lower using a cost-effectiveness threshold of $100,000/QALY. Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE In this microsimulation model of US adults aged 45 to 75 years [corrected], the current 10-year ASCVD risk threshold (≥7.5% risk threshold) used in the ACC/AHA cholesterol treatment guidelines has an acceptable cost-effectiveness profile (ICER, $37,000/QALY), but more lenient ASCVD thresholds would be optimal using cost-effectiveness thresholds of $100,000/QALY (≥4.0% risk threshold) or $150,000/QALY (≥3.0% risk threshold). Relevant:
Query: Statins decrease blood cholesterol. Document: The optimal ASCVD threshold was sensitive to patient preferences for taking a pill daily, changes to statin price, and the risk of statin-induced diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Statins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: In clinical trials, statins are beneficial in the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: However, the overall benefits observed with statins appear to be greater than what might be expected from changes in lipid levels alone, suggesting effects beyond cholesterol lowering. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Indeed, recent studies indicate that some of the cholesterol-independent or "pleiotropic" effects of statins involve improving endothelial function, enhancing the stability of atherosclerotic plaques, decreasing oxidative stress and inflammation, and inhibiting the thrombogenic response. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Furthermore, statins have beneficial extrahepatic effects on the immune system, CNS, and bone. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Many of these pleiotropic effects are mediated by inhibition of isoprenoids, which serve as lipid attachments for intracellular signaling molecules. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: In particular, inhibition of small GTP-binding proteins, Rho, Ras, and Rac, whose proper membrane localization and function are dependent on isoprenylation, may play an important role in mediating the pleiotropic effects of statins. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: IMPORTANCE The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) cholesterol treatment guidelines have wide-scale implications for treating adults without history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) with statins. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: OBJECTIVE To estimate the cost-effectiveness of various 10-year ASCVD risk thresholds that could be used in the ACC/AHA cholesterol treatment guidelines. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Microsimulation model, including lifetime time horizon, US societal perspective, 3% discount rate for costs, and health outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: In the model, hypothetical individuals from a representative US population aged 40 to 75 years received statin treatment, experienced ASCVD events, and died from ASCVD-related or non-ASCVD-related causes based on ASCVD natural history and statin treatment parameters. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Data sources for model parameters included National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, large clinical trials and meta-analyses for statin benefits and treatment, and other published sources. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Estimated ASCVD events prevented and incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: RESULTS In the base-case scenario, the current ASCVD threshold of 7.5% or higher, which was estimated to be associated with 48% of adults treated with statins, had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $37,000/QALY compared with a 10% or higher threshold. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: More lenient ASCVD thresholds of 4.0% or higher (61% of adults treated) and 3.0% or higher (67% of adults treated) had ICERs of $81,000/QALY and $140,000/QALY, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Shifting from a 7.5% or higher ASCVD risk threshold to a 3.0% or higher ASCVD risk threshold was estimated to be associated with an additional 161,560 cardiovascular disease events averted. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to changes in the disutility associated with taking a pill daily, statin price, and the risk of statin-induced diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, there was a higher than 93% chance that the optimal ASCVD threshold was 5.0% or lower using a cost-effectiveness threshold of $100,000/QALY. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE In this microsimulation model of US adults aged 45 to 75 years [corrected], the current 10-year ASCVD risk threshold (≥7.5% risk threshold) used in the ACC/AHA cholesterol treatment guidelines has an acceptable cost-effectiveness profile (ICER, $37,000/QALY), but more lenient ASCVD thresholds would be optimal using cost-effectiveness thresholds of $100,000/QALY (≥4.0% risk threshold) or $150,000/QALY (≥3.0% risk threshold). Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: The optimal ASCVD threshold was sensitive to patient preferences for taking a pill daily, changes to statin price, and the risk of statin-induced diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: CONTEXT Gallstone disease is a leading cause of morbidity in western countries and carries a high economic burden. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Statins decrease hepatic cholesterol biosynthesis and may therefore lower the risk of cholesterol gallstones by reducing the cholesterol concentration in the bile. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Data on this association in humans are scarce. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: OBJECTIVE To study the association between the use of statins, fibrates, or other lipid-lowering agents and the risk of incident gallstone disease followed by cholecystectomy. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Case-control analysis using the UK-based General Practice Research Database. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Incident patients between 1994 and 2008 and 4 controls per each patient were identified and matched on age, sex, general practice, calendar time, and years of history in the database. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: The study population was 76% women and the mean (SD) age was 53.4 (15.0) years at the index date. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratio (OR) of developing gallstones followed by cholecystectomy in relation to exposure to lipid-lowering agents, stratified by exposure timing and duration. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: The ORs and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were adjusted for smoking, body mass index, ischemic heart disease, stroke, and estrogen use. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE The adjusted OR (AOR) for developing gallstone disease followed by cholecystectomy in relation to exposure to lipid-lowering agents. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: RESULTS A total of 27,035 patients with cholecystectomy and 106,531 matched controls were identified, including 2396 patients and 8868 controls who had statin use. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: Compared with nonuse, current statin use (last prescription recorded within 90 days before the first-time diagnosis of the disease) was 1.0% for patients and 0.8% for controls (AOR, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.95-1.27) for 1 to 4 prescriptions; 2.6% vs 2.4% (AOR, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.77-0.93) for 5 to 19 prescriptions, and 3.2% vs 3.7% (AOR, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.59-0.70) for 20 or more prescriptions. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: The AORs for current use of statins defined as 20 or more prescriptions were similar (around 0.6) across age, sex, and body mass index categories, and across the statin class. Relevant:
Query: Statins increase blood cholesterol. Document: CONCLUSION Long-term use of statins was associated with a decreased risk of gallstones followed by cholecystectomy. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Importance Although non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) are increasingly used to prevent thromboembolic disease, there are limited data on NOAC-related intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Objective To assess the association between preceding oral anticoagulant use (warfarin, NOACs, and no oral anticoagulants [OACs]) and in-hospital mortality among patients with ICH. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Design, Setting, and Participants Retrospective cohort study of 141 311 patients with ICH admitted from October 2013 to December 2016 to 1662 Get With The Guidelines–Stroke hospitals. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Exposures Anticoagulation therapy before ICH, defined as any use of OACs within 7 days prior to hospital arrival. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Main Outcomes and Measures In-hospital mortality. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Results Among 141 311 patients with ICH (mean [SD] age, 68.3 [15.3] years; 48.1% women), 15 036 (10.6%) were taking warfarin and 4918 (3.5%) were taking NOACs preceding ICH, and 39 585 (28.0%) and 5783 (4.1%) were taking concomitant single and dual antiplatelet agents, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Patients with prior use of warfarin or NOACs were older and had higher prevalence of atrial fibrillation and prior stroke. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Acute ICH stroke severity (measured by the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) was not significantly different across the 3 groups (median, 9 [interquartile range, 2-21] for warfarin, 8 [2-20] for NOACs, and 8 [2-19] for no OACs). Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: The unadjusted in-hospital mortality rates were 32.6% for warfarin, 26.5% for NOACs, and 22.5% for no OACs. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Compared with patients without prior use of OACs, the risk of in-hospital mortality was higher among patients with prior use of warfarin (adjusted risk difference [ARD], 9.0% [97.5% CI, 7.9% to 10.1%]; adjusted odds ratio [AOR], 1.62 [97.5% CI, 1.53 to 1.71]) and higher among patients with prior use of NOACs (ARD, 3.3% [97.5% CI, 1.7% to 4.8%]; AOR, 1.21 [97.5% CI, 1.11-1.32]). Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Compared with patients with prior use of warfarin, patients with prior use of NOACs had a lower risk of in-hospital mortality (ARD, −5.7% [97.5% CI, −7.3% to −4.2%]; AOR, 0.75 [97.5% CI, 0.69 to 0.81]). Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: The difference in mortality between NOAC-treated patients and warfarin-treated patients was numerically greater among patients with prior use of dual antiplatelet agents (32.7% vs 47.1%; ARD, −15.0% [95.5% CI, −26.3% to −3.8%]; AOR, 0.50 [97.5% CI, 0.29 to 0.86]) than among those taking these agents without prior antiplatelet therapy (26.4% vs 31.7%; ARD, −5.0% [97.5% CI, −6.8% to −3.2%]; AOR, 0.77 [97.5% CI, 0.70 to 0.85]), although the interaction P value (.07) was not statistically significant. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Conclusions and Relevance Among patients with ICH, prior use of NOACs or warfarin was associated with higher in-hospital mortality compared with no OACs. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Prior use of NOACs, compared with prior use of warfarin, was associated with lower risk of in-hospital mortality. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Stroke ranks as the third leading cause of death in the United States. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: It is now estimated that there are more than 700 000 incident strokes annually and 4.4 million stroke survivors.1 2 The economic burden of stroke was estimated by the American Heart Association to be $51 billion (direct and indirect costs) in 1999.3 Despite the advent of treatment of selected patients with acute ischemic stroke with tissue plasminogen activator and the promise of other experimental therapies, the best approach to reducing the burden of stroke remains prevention.4 5 High-risk or stroke-prone individuals can be identified and targeted for specific interventions.6 This is important because epidemiological data suggest a substantial leveling off of prior declines in stroke-related mortality and a possible increase in stroke incidence.7 8   The Stroke Council of the American Heart Association formed an ad hoc writing group to provide a clear and concise overview of the evidence regarding various established and potential stroke risk factors. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: The writing group was chosen based on expertise in specific subject areas, and it used literature review, reference to previously published guidelines, and expert opinion to summarize existing evidence and formulate recommendations (Table 1⇓). Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: View this table:   Table 1. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Levels of Evidence and Grading of Recommendations    As given in Tables 2 through 4⇓⇓⇓, risk factors or risk markers for a first stroke were classified according to potential for modification (nonmodifiable, modifiable, or potentially modifiable) and strength of evidence (well documented, less well documented).5 The tables give the estimated prevalence, population attributable risk, relative risk, and risk reduction with treatment for each factor when known. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Population attributable risk reflects the proportion of ischemic strokes in the population that can be attributed to a particular risk factor and is given by the formula 100×[prevalence(relative risk−1)/prevalence(relative risk−1)+1]). Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: … Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: BACKGROUND Although unstable coronary artery disease is the most common reason for admission to a coronary care unit, the long-term prognosis of patients with this diagnosis is unknown. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: This is particularly true for patients with diabetes mellitus, who are known to have a high morbidity and mortality after an acute myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS Prospectively collected data from 6 different countries in the Organization to Assess Strategies for Ischemic Syndromes (OASIS) registry were analyzed to determine the 2-year prognosis of diabetic and nondiabetic patients who were hospitalized with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Overall, 1718 of 8013 registry patients (21%) had diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Diabetic patients had a higher rate of coronary bypass surgery than nondiabetic patients (23% versus 20%, P:<0.001) but had similar rates of catheterization and angioplasty. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Diabetes independently predicted mortality (relative risk [RR], 1.57; 95% CI, 1.38 to 1.81; P:<0.001), as well as cardiovascular death, new myocardial infarction, stroke, and new congestive heart failure. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Moreover, compared with their nondiabetic counterparts, women had a significantly higher risk than men (RR, 1.98; 95% CI, 1.60 to 2.44; and RR, 1.28; 95% CI, 1.06 to 1.56, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Interestingly, diabetic patients without prior cardiovascular disease had the same event rates for all outcomes as nondiabetic patients with previous vascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: CONCLUSIONS Hospitalization for unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction predicts a high 2-year morbidity and mortality; this is especially evident for patients with diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. Document: Diabetic patients with no previous cardiovascular disease have the same long-term morbidity and mortality as nondiabetic patients with established cardiovascular disease after hospitalization for unstable coronary artery disease. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: White adipose tissue displays high plasticity. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: We developed a system for the inducible, permanent labeling of mature adipocytes that we called the AdipoChaser mouse. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: We monitored adipogenesis during development, high-fat diet (HFD) feeding and cold exposure. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: During cold-induced 'browning' of subcutaneous fat, most 'beige' adipocytes stem from de novo–differentiated adipocytes. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: During HFD feeding, epididymal fat initiates adipogenesis after 4 weeks, whereas subcutaneous fat undergoes hypertrophy for a period of up to 12 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Gonadal fat develops postnatally, whereas subcutaneous fat develops between embryonic days 14 and 18. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Our results highlight the extensive differences in adipogenic potential in various fat depots. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Brown adipocytes dissipate energy, whereas white adipocytes are an energy storage site. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: We explored the plasticity of different white adipose tissue depots in acquiring a brown phenotype by cold exposure. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: By comparing cold-induced genes in white fat to those enriched in brown compared with white fat, at thermoneutrality we defined a "brite" transcription signature. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: We identified the genes, pathways, and promoter regulatory motifs associated with "browning," as these represent novel targets for understanding this process. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: For example, neuregulin 4 was more highly expressed in brown adipose tissue and upregulated in white fat upon cold exposure, and cell studies showed that it is a neurite outgrowth-promoting adipokine, indicative of a role in increasing adipose tissue innervation in response to cold. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: A cell culture system that allows us to reproduce the differential properties of the discrete adipose depots was developed to study depot-specific differences at an in vitro level. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: The key transcriptional events underpinning white adipose tissue to brown transition are important, as they represent an attractive proposition to overcome the detrimental effects associated with metabolic disorders, including obesity and type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Brown fat is a specialized fat depot that can increase energy expenditure and produce heat. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: After the recent discovery of the presence of active brown fat in human adults and novel transcription factors controlling brown adipocyte differentiation, the field of the study of brown fat has gained great interest and is rapidly growing. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Brown fat expansion and/or activation results in increased energy expenditure and a negative energy balance in mice and limits weight gain. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Brown fat is also able to utilize blood glucose and lipid and results in improved glucose metabolism and blood lipid independent of weight loss. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Prolonged cold exposure and beta adrenergic agonists can induce browning of white adipose tissue. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: The inducible brown adipocyte, beige adipocyte evolving by thermogenic activation of white adipose tissue have different origin and molecular signature from classical brown adipocytes but share the characteristics of high mitochondria content, UCP1 expression and thermogenic capacity when activated. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Increasing browning may also be an efficient way to increase whole brown fat activity. Relevant:
Query: Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. Document: Recent human studies have shown possibilities that findings in mice can be reproduced in human, making brown fat a good candidate organ to treat obesity and its related disorders. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: This study aimed to describe cancer screening rates for second primary cancer among cancer survivors in Korea, and to compare these rates with those of two control groups: individuals without a history of cancer but with other chronic diseases, and individuals without a history of cancer and without other chronic diseases. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: The study is a cross-sectional analysis of 15,556 adults ≥30 years old who participated in the 2001, 2005, and 2007 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (KNHANES). Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: The prevalence of breast, cervical, gastric, and colorectal cancer screening examinations according to national guidelines was assessed and compared to two control groups. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Screening rates among cancer survivors were 48.5, 54.7, 34.7, and 28.6% for breast, cervical, gastric, and colorectal cancer screening, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Cancer survivors showed higher screening rates for all four cancer sites compared with both control groups, but breast cancer screening was only statistically significant after adjusting gender, age, marital status, education, income, working status, health insurance, smoking and drinking status, and self-reported health status. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Cancer survivors were more likely than individuals without a cancer history to obtain screening examinations according to recommended guidelines. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Still, screening rates even among survivors were suboptimal, emphasizing the need for a more systematic approach to second primary cancer screening and prevention. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Pregnancy in women with different renal diseases has important consequences for the developing fetus and maternal health. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Kidneys and the urinary tract have to adapt to the pregnancy status and therefore suffer significant anatomical, hemodynamic and endocrine changes. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Failure to adapt can aggravate the preexisting maternal disease and can also create suboptimal environment for fetal development and increase the risk of obstetric complications. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Knowledge and correct interpretation of the renal functional tests is necessary for the modern obstetrician, avoiding an incorrect diagnosis for renal disease where only specific renal changes during pregnancy are present, but meanwhile a correct evaluation of the renal function and changes can detect a pathology that can aggravate both the mother’s and the baby’s condition. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Improvement and better understanding of the renal pathophysiology in pregnancy made possible that pregnant woman look forward for a good outcome, including here also the women with renal transplant. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Nowadays is underlined the concept of multidisciplinary teamwork, a very important concept of modern medicine. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: The obstetrician should consider nephrologists as key players in the team and in our opinion should refer to them the pregnant women for a routine check-up of the renal status in the 2nd or beginning of 3rd trimester by ultrasound, beside the usual blood and urine analysis. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: The nephrologists and urologists should be involved in the management of severe medical conditions, such as preeclampsia, acute and chronic renal failure and never the less in the complex management of dialysis or renal transplant patients. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: In pregnancy it can be encountered several renal diseases, some of them preexisting the pregnancy and other developed or being direct influenced by pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: This chapter will discuss briefly the basic evaluation of renal status in order to present and better understand the acute and chronic renal disorders in pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: The chapter will focus on the most common preexisting diseases in pregnancy such as: chronic glomerulonephritis, secondary glomerular nephropathies, interstitial nephropathies (chronic pyelonephritis, renal tuberculosis), diabetes nephropathy, unique surgical kidney, chronic renal failure. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: From the renal diseases directly influenced by pregnancy it will be discussed: asymptomatic bacteriuria, symptomatic urinary infection, urolithiasis and acute renal failure in pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: It will be presented also the management of dialysis in pregnancy and pregnant women with renal transplant. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: BACKGROUND Lifestyle factors including cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption and nutritional habits impact on health, wellness, and the risk of chronic diseases. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: In the areas of in-vitro fertilization (IVF) and pregnancy, lifestyle factors influence oocyte production, fertilization rates, pregnancy and pregnancy loss, while chronic, low-grade oxidative stress may underlie poor outcomes for some IVF cases. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: METHODS Here, we review the current literature and present some original, previously unpublished data, obtained from couples attending the PIVET Medical Centre in Western Australia. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: RESULTS During the study, 80 % of females and 70 % of male partners completed a 1-week diary documenting their smoking, alcohol and fruit and vegetable intake. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: The subsequent clinical outcomes of their IVF treatment such as quantity of oocytes collected, fertilization rates, pregnancy and pregnancy loss were submitted to multiple regression analysis, in order to investigate the relationship between patients, treatment and the recorded lifestyle factors. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Of significance, it was found that male smoking caused an increased risk of pregnancy loss (p = 0.029), while female smoking caused an adverse effect on ovarian reserve. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Both alcohol consumption (β = 0.074, p < 0.001) and fruit and vegetable consumption (β = 0.034, p < 0.001) had positive effects on fertilization. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: CONCLUSION Based on our results and the current literature, there is an important impact of lifestyle factors on IVF clinical outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease Document: Currently, there are conflicting results regarding other lifestyle factors such as nutritional habits and alcohol consumption, but it is apparent that chronic oxidative stress induced by lifestyle factors and poor nutritional habits associate with a lower rate of IVF success. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Many forms of long-lasting behavioral and synaptic plasticity require the synthesis of new proteins. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: For example, long-term potentiation (LTP) that endures for more than an hour requires both transcription and translation. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: The signal-transduction mechanisms that couple synaptic events to protein translational machinery during long-lasting synaptic plasticity, however, are not well understood. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: One signaling pathway that is stimulated by growth factors and results in the translation of specific mRNAs includes the rapamycin-sensitive kinase mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR, also known as FRAP and RAFT-1). Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Several components of this translational signaling pathway, including mTOR, eukaryotic initiation factor-4E-binding proteins 1 and 2, and eukaryotic initiation factor-4E, are present in the rat hippocampus as shown by Western blot analysis, and these proteins are detected in the cell bodies and dendrites in the hippocampal slices by immunostaining studies. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: In cultured hippocampal neurons, these proteins are present in dendrites and are often found near the presynaptic protein, synapsin I. At synaptic sites, their distribution completely overlaps with a postsynaptic protein, PSD-95. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: These observations suggest the postsynaptic localization of these proteins. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Disruption of mTOR signaling by rapamycin results in a reduction of late-phase LTP expression induced by high-frequency stimulation; the early phase of LTP is unaffected. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Rapamycin also blocks the synaptic potentiation induced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor in hippocampal slices. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: These results demonstrate an essential role for rapamycin-sensitive signaling in the expression of two forms of synaptic plasticity that require new protein synthesis. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: The localization of this translational signaling pathway at postsynaptic sites may provide a mechanism that controls local protein synthesis at potentiated synapses. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor TrkB are crucial for many forms of neuronal plasticity, including structural long-term potentiation (sLTP), which is a correlate of an animal’s learning. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: However, it is unknown whether BDNF release and TrkB activation occur during sLTP, and if so, when and where. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Here, using a fluorescence resonance energy transfer-based sensor for TrkB and two-photon fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy, we monitor TrkB activity in single dendritic spines of CA1 pyramidal neurons in cultured murine hippocampal slices. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: In response to sLTP induction, we find fast (onset < 1 min) and sustained (>20 min) activation of TrkB in the stimulated spine that depends on NMDAR (N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor) and CaMKII signalling and on postsynaptically synthesized BDNF. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: We confirm the presence of postsynaptic BDNF using electron microscopy to localize endogenous BDNF to dendrites and spines of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Consistent with these findings, we also show rapid, glutamate-uncaging-evoked, time-locked BDNF release from single dendritic spines using BDNF fused to superecliptic pHluorin. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: We demonstrate that this postsynaptic BDNF–TrkB signalling pathway is necessary for both structural and functional LTP. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Together, these findings reveal a spine-autonomous, autocrine signalling mechanism involving NMDAR–CaMKII-dependent BDNF release from stimulated dendritic spines and subsequent TrkB activation on these same spines that is crucial for structural and functional plasticity. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: As the nervous system develops, there is an inherent variability in the connections formed between differentiating neurons. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Despite this variability, neural circuits form that are functional and remarkably robust. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: One way in which neurons deal with variability in their inputs is through compensatory, homeostatic changes in their electrical properties. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Here, we show that neurons also make compensatory adjustments to their structure. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: We analysed the development of dendrites on an identified central neuron (aCC) in the late Drosophila embryo at the stage when it receives its first connections and first becomes electrically active. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: At the same time, we charted the distribution of presynaptic sites on the developing postsynaptic arbor. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Genetic manipulations of the presynaptic partners demonstrate that the postsynaptic dendritic arbor adjusts its growth to compensate for changes in the activity and density of synaptic sites. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Blocking the synthesis or evoked release of presynaptic neurotransmitter results in greater dendritic extension. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: Conversely, an increase in the density of presynaptic release sites induces a reduction in the extent of the dendritic arbor. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: These growth adjustments occur locally in the arbor and are the result of the promotion or inhibition of growth of neurites in the proximity of presynaptic sites. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: We provide evidence that suggest a role for the postsynaptic activity state of protein kinase A in mediating this structural adjustment, which modifies dendritic growth in response to synaptic activity. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: These findings suggest that the dendritic arbor, at least during early stages of connectivity, behaves as a homeostatic device that adjusts its size and geometry to the level and the distribution of input received. Relevant:
Query: Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. Document: The growing arbor thus counterbalances naturally occurring variations in synaptic density and activity so as to ensure that an appropriate level of input is achieved. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Regulatory T (Treg) cells play a pivotal role in suppressing self-harmful T cell responses, but how Treg cells mediate suppression to maintain immune homeostasis and limit responses during inflammation is unclear. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Here we show that effector Treg cells express high amounts of the integrin αvβ8, which enables them to activate latent transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Treg-cell-specific deletion of integrin αvβ8 did not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype, suggesting that this pathway is not important in Treg-cell-mediated maintenance of immune homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: However, Treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic T cell responses during active inflammation. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Thus, our results identify a mechanism by which Treg cells suppress exuberant immune responses, highlighting a key role for effector Treg-cell-mediated activation of latent TGF-β in suppression of self-harmful T cell responses during active inflammation. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Half a century ago, chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) was first described as a disease fatally affecting the ability of children to survive infections. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Various milestone discoveries have since been made, from an insufficient ability of patients’ leucocytes to kill microbes to the underlying genetic abnormalities. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: In this inherited disorder, phagocytes lack NADPH oxidase activity and do not generate reactive oxygen species, most notably superoxide anion, causing recurrent bacterial and fungal infections. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Patients with CGD also suffer from chronic inflammatory conditions, most prominently granuloma formation in hollow viscera. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: The precise mechanisms of the increased microbial pathogenicity have been unclear, and more so the reasons for the exaggerated inflammatory response. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Here we show that a superoxide-dependent step in tryptophan metabolism along the kynurenine pathway is blocked in CGD mice with lethal pulmonary aspergillosis, leading to unrestrained Vγ1+ γδ T-cell reactivity, dominant production of interleukin (IL)-17, defective regulatory T-cell activity and acute inflammatory lung injury. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Although beneficial effects are induced by IL-17 neutralization or γδ T-cell contraction, complete cure and reversal of the hyperinflammatory phenotype are achieved by replacement therapy with a natural kynurenine distal to the blockade in the pathway. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Effective therapy, which includes co-administration of recombinant interferon-γ (IFN-γ), restores production of downstream immunoactive metabolites and enables the emergence of regulatory Vγ4+ γδ and Foxp3+ αβ T cells. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Therefore, paradoxically, the lack of reactive oxygen species contributes to the hyperinflammatory phenotype associated with NADPH oxidase deficiencies, through a dysfunctional kynurenine pathway of tryptophan catabolism. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Yet, this condition can be reverted by reactivating the pathway downstream of the superoxide-dependent step. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Regulatory T (Treg) cells, whose differentiation and function are controlled by X chromosome-encoded transcription factor Foxp3, are generated in the thymus (tTreg) and extrathymically (peripheral, pTreg), and their deficiency results in fatal autoimmunity. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Here, we demonstrate that a Foxp3 enhancer, conserved noncoding sequence 1 (CNS1), essential for pTreg but dispensable for tTreg cell generation, is present only in placental mammals. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: CNS1 is largely composed of mammalian-wide interspersed repeats (MIR) that have undergone retrotransposition during early mammalian radiation. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: During pregnancy, pTreg cells specific to a model paternal alloantigen were generated in a CNS1-dependent manner and accumulated in the placenta. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Furthermore, when mated with allogeneic, but not syngeneic, males, CNS1-deficient females showed increased fetal resorption accompanied by increased immune cell infiltration and defective remodeling of spiral arteries. Relevant:
Query: T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. Document: Our results suggest that, during evolution, a CNS1-dependent mechanism of extrathymic differentiation of Treg cells emerged in placental animals to enforce maternal-fetal tolerance. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: The HIV-1 protein Nef enhances viral pathogenicity and accelerates disease progression in vivo. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Nef potentiates T cell activation by an unknown mechanism, probably by optimizing the intracellular environment for HIV replication. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Using a new T cell reporter system, we have found that Nef more than doubles the number of cells expressing the transcription factors NF-kappaB and NFAT after TCR stimulation. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: This Nef-induced priming of TCR signaling pathways occurred independently of calcium signaling and involved a very proximal step before protein kinase C activation. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Engagement of the TCR by MHC-bound Ag triggers the formation of the immunological synapse by recruiting detergent-resistant membrane microdomains, termed lipid rafts. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Approximately 5-10% of the total cellular pool of Nef is localized within lipid rafts. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Using confocal and real-time microscopy, we found that Nef in lipid rafts was recruited into the immunological synapse within minutes after Ab engagement of the TCR/CD3 and CD28 receptors. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: This recruitment was dependent on the N-terminal domain of Nef encompassing its myristoylation. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Nef did not increase the number of cell surface lipid rafts or immunological synapses. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Recently, studies have shown a specific interaction of Nef with an active subpopulation of p21-activated kinase-2 found only in the lipid rafts. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Thus, the corecruitment of Nef and key cellular partners (e.g., activated p21-activated kinase-2) into the immunological synapse may underlie the increased frequency of cells expressing transcriptionally active forms of NF-kappaB and NFAT and the resultant changes in T cell activation. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: T cell activation and function require a structured engagement of antigen-presenting cells. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: These cell contacts are characterized by two distinct dynamics in vivo: transient contacts resulting from promigratory junctions called immunological kinapses or prolonged contacts from stable junctions called immunological synapses. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Kinapses operate in the steady state to allow referencing to self-peptide-MHC (pMHC) and searching for pathogen-derived pMHC. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Synapses are induced by T cell receptor (TCR) interactions with agonist pMHC under specific conditions and correlate with robust immune responses that generate effector and memory T cells. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: High-resolution imaging has revealed that the synapse is highly coordinated, integrating cell adhesion, TCR recognition of pMHC complexes, and an array of activating and inhibitory ligands to promote or prevent T cell signaling. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: In this review, we examine the molecular components, geometry, and timing underlying kinapses and synapses. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: We integrate recent molecular and physiological data to provide a synthesis and suggest ways forward. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: How membrane receptors initiate signal transduction upon ligand binding is a matter of intense scrutiny. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: The T cell receptor complex (TCR-CD3) is composed of TCR alpha/beta ligand binding subunits bound to the CD3 subunits responsible for signal transduction. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Although it has long been speculated that TCR-CD3 may undergo a conformational change, confirmation is still lacking. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: We present strong evidence that ligand engagement of TCR-CD3 induces a conformational change that exposes a proline-rich sequence in CD3 epsilon and results in recruitment of the adaptor protein Nck. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: This occurs earlier than and independently of tyrosine kinase activation. Relevant:
Query: TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. Document: Finally, by interfering with Nck-CD3 epsilon association in vivo, we demonstrate that TCR-CD3 recruitment of Nck is critical for maturation of the immune synapse and for T cell activation. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Glioblastomas are deadly cancers that display a functional cellular hierarchy maintained by self-renewing glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs). Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: GSCs are regulated by molecular pathways distinct from the bulk tumor that may be useful therapeutic targets. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: We determined that A20 (TNFAIP3), a regulator of cell survival and the NF-kappaB pathway, is overexpressed in GSCs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mRNA and protein levels. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: To determine the functional significance of A20 in GSCs, we targeted A20 expression with lentiviral-mediated delivery of short hairpin RNA (shRNA). Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Inhibiting A20 expression decreased GSC growth and survival through mechanisms associated with decreased cell-cycle progression and decreased phosphorylation of p65/RelA. Elevated levels of A20 in GSCs contributed to apoptotic resistance: GSCs were less susceptible to TNFalpha-induced cell death than matched non-stem glioma cells, but A20 knockdown sensitized GSCs to TNFalpha-mediated apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: The decreased survival of GSCs upon A20 knockdown contributed to the reduced ability of these cells to self-renew in primary and secondary neurosphere formation assays. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: The tumorigenic potential of GSCs was decreased with A20 targeting, resulting in increased survival of mice bearing human glioma xenografts. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: In silico analysis of a glioma patient genomic database indicates that A20 overexpression and amplification is inversely correlated with survival. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Together these data indicate that A20 contributes to glioma maintenance through effects on the glioma stem cell subpopulation. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Although inactivating mutations in A20 in lymphoma suggest A20 can act as a tumor suppressor, similar point mutations have not been identified through glioma genomic sequencing: in fact, our data suggest A20 may function as a tumor enhancer in glioma through promotion of GSC survival. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: A20 anticancer therapies should therefore be viewed with caution as effects will likely differ depending on the tumor type. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: We report the development of a new method to induce glioblastoma multiforme in adult immunocompetent mice by injecting Cre-loxP–controlled lentiviral vectors expressing oncogenes. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Cell type- or region-specific expression of activated forms of the oncoproteins Harvey-Ras and AKT in fewer than 60 glial fibrillary acidic protein–positive cells in the hippocampus, subventricular zone or cortex of mice heterozygous for the gene encoding the tumor suppressor Tp53 were tested. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Mice developed glioblastoma multiforme when transduced either in the subventricular zone or the hippocampus. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: However, tumors were rarely detected when the mice were transduced in the cortex. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Transplantation of brain tumor cells into naive recipient mouse brain resulted in the formation of glioblastoma multiforme–like tumors, which contained CD133+ cells, formed tumorspheres and could differentiate into neurons and astrocytes. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: We suggest that the use of Cre-loxP–controlled lentiviral vectors is a novel way to generate a mouse glioblastoma multiforme model in a region- and cell type-specific manner in adult mice. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Genomic alterations leading to aberrant activation of cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) complexes drive the pathogenesis of many common human tumor types. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: In the case of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), these alterations are most commonly due to homozygous deletion of p16(INK4a) and less commonly due to genomic amplifications of individual genes encoding cyclins or cdks. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Here, we describe deletion of the p18(INK4c) cdk inhibitor as a novel genetic alteration driving the pathogenesis of GBM. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Deletions of p18(INK4c) often occurred in tumors also harboring homozygous deletions of p16(INK4a). Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Expression of p18(INK4c) was completely absent in 43% of GBM primary tumors studied by immunohistochemistry. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: Lentiviral reconstitution of p18(INK4c) expression at physiologic levels in p18(INK4c)-deficient but not p18(INK4c)-proficient GBM cells led to senescence-like G(1) cell cycle arrest. Relevant:
Query: TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. Document: These studies identify p18(INK4c) as a GBM tumor suppressor gene, revealing an additional mechanism leading to aberrant activation of cyclin/cdk complexes in this terrible malignancy. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: CONTEXT Many individuals take vitamins in the hopes of preventing chronic diseases such as cancer, and vitamins E and C are among the most common individual supplements. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: A large-scale randomized trial suggested that vitamin E may reduce risk of prostate cancer; however, few trials have been powered to address this relationship. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: No previous trial in men at usual risk has examined vitamin C alone in the prevention of cancer. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate whether long-term vitamin E or C supplementation decreases risk of prostate and total cancer events among men. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS The Physicians' Health Study II is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled factorial trial of vitamins E and C that began in 1997 and continued until its scheduled completion on August 31, 2007. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: A total of 14,641 male physicians in the United States initially aged 50 years or older, including 1307 men with a history of prior cancer at randomization, were enrolled. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: INTERVENTION Individual supplements of 400 IU of vitamin E every other day and 500 mg of vitamin C daily. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Prostate and total cancer. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: RESULTS During a mean follow-up of 8.0 years, there were 1008 confirmed incident cases of prostate cancer and 1943 total cancers. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Compared with placebo, vitamin E had no effect on the incidence of prostate cancer (active and placebo vitamin E groups, 9.1 and 9.5 events per 1000 person-years; hazard ratio [HR], 0.97; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.85-1.09; P = .58) or total cancer (active and placebo vitamin E groups, 17.8 and 17.3 cases per 1000 person-years; HR, 1.04; 95% CI, 0.95-1.13; P = .41). Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: There was also no significant effect of vitamin C on total cancer (active and placebo vitamin C groups, 17.6 and 17.5 events per 1000 person-years; HR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.92-1.10; P = .86) or prostate cancer (active and placebo vitamin C groups, 9.4 and 9.2 cases per 1000 person-years; HR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.90-1.15; P = .80). Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Neither vitamin E nor vitamin C had a significant effect on colorectal, lung, or other site-specific cancers. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Adjustment for adherence and exclusion of the first 4 or 6 years of follow-up did not alter the results. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Stratification by various cancer risk factors demonstrated no significant modification of the effect of vitamin E on prostate cancer risk or either agent on total cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this large, long-term trial of male physicians, neither vitamin E nor C supplementation reduced the risk of prostate or total cancer. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: These data provide no support for the use of these supplements for the prevention of cancer in middle-aged and older men. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00270647. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Metabolic pathway reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer cell growth and survival and supports the anabolic and energetic demands of these rapidly dividing cells. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: The underlying regulators of the tumor metabolic program are not completely understood; however, these factors have potential as cancer therapy targets. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Here, we determined that upregulation of the oncogenic transcriptional coregulator steroid receptor coactivator 2 (SRC-2), also known as NCOA2, drives glutamine-dependent de novo lipogenesis, which supports tumor cell survival and eventual metastasis. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: SRC-2 was highly elevated in a variety of tumors, especially in prostate cancer, in which SRC-2 was amplified and overexpressed in 37% of the metastatic tumors evaluated. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: In prostate cancer cells, SRC-2 stimulated reductive carboxylation of α-ketoglutarate to generate citrate via retrograde TCA cycling, promoting lipogenesis and reprogramming of glutamine metabolism. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Glutamine-mediated nutrient signaling activated SRC-2 via mTORC1-dependent phosphorylation, which then triggered downstream transcriptional responses by coactivating SREBP-1, which subsequently enhanced lipogenic enzyme expression. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Metabolic profiling of human prostate tumors identified a massive increase in the SRC-2-driven metabolic signature in metastatic tumors compared with that seen in localized tumors, further implicating SRC-2 as a prominent metabolic coordinator of cancer metastasis. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Moreover, SRC-2 inhibition in murine models severely attenuated the survival, growth, and metastasis of prostate cancer. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Together, these results suggest that the SRC-2 pathway has potential as a therapeutic target for prostate cancer. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Wedelolactone, a plant coumestan, was shown to act as anti-cancer agent for breast and prostate carcinomas in vitro and in vivo targeting multiple cellular proteins including androgen receptors, 5-lipoxygenase and topoisomerase IIα. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: It is cytotoxic to breast, prostate, pituitary and myeloma cancer cell lines in vitro at μM concentrations. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: In this study, however, a novel biological activity of nM dose of wedelolactone was demonstrated. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: Wedelolactone acts as agonist of estrogen receptors (ER) α and β as demonstrated by transactivation of estrogen response element (ERE) in cells transiently expressing either ERα or ERβ and by molecular docking of this coumestan into ligand binding pocket of both ERα and ERβ. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: In breast cancer cells, wedelolactone stimulates growth of estrogen receptor-positive cells, expression of estrogen-responsive genes and activates rapid non-genomic estrogen signalling. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: All these effects can be inhibited by pretreatment with pure ER antagonist ICI 182,780 and they are not observed in ER-negative breast cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. Document: We conclude that wedelolactone acts as phytoestrogen in breast cancer cells by stimulating ER genomic and non-genomic signalling pathways. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: BACKGROUND Taxing sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) has been proposed in high-income countries to reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: We sought to estimate the potential health effects of such a fiscal strategy in the middle-income country of India, where there is heterogeneity in SSB consumption, patterns of substitution between SSBs and other beverages after tax increases, and vast differences in chronic disease risk within the population. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: METHODS AND FINDINGS Using consumption and price variations data from a nationally representative survey of 100,855 Indian households, we first calculated how changes in SSB price alter per capita consumption of SSBs and substitution with other beverages. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: We then incorporated SSB sales trends, body mass index (BMI), and diabetes incidence data stratified by age, sex, income, and urban/rural residence into a validated microsimulation of caloric consumption, glycemic load, overweight/obesity prevalence, and type 2 diabetes incidence among Indian subpopulations facing a 20% SSB excise tax. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: The 20% SSB tax was anticipated to reduce overweight and obesity prevalence by 3.0% (95% CI 1.6%-5.9%) and type 2 diabetes incidence by 1.6% (95% CI 1.2%-1.9%) among various Indian subpopulations over the period 2014-2023, if SSB consumption continued to increase linearly in accordance with secular trends. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: However, acceleration in SSB consumption trends consistent with industry marketing models would be expected to increase the impact efficacy of taxation, averting 4.2% of prevalent overweight/obesity (95% CI 2.5-10.0%) and 2.5% (95% CI 1.0-2.8%) of incident type 2 diabetes from 2014-2023. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: Given current consumption and BMI distributions, our results suggest the largest relative effect would be expected among young rural men, refuting our a priori hypothesis that urban populations would be isolated beneficiaries of SSB taxation. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: Key limitations of this estimation approach include the assumption that consumer expenditure behavior from prior years, captured in price elasticities, will reflect future behavior among consumers, and potential underreporting of consumption in dietary recall data used to inform our calculations. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: CONCLUSION Sustained SSB taxation at a high tax rate could mitigate rising obesity and type 2 diabetes in India among both urban and rural subpopulations. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: CONTEXT Sugar-sweetened beverages like soft drinks and fruit punches contain large amounts of readily absorbable sugars and may contribute to weight gain and an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, but these relationships have been minimally addressed in adults. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine the association between consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and weight change and risk of type 2 diabetes in women. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Prospective cohort analyses conducted from 1991 to 1999 among women in the Nurses' Health Study II. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: The diabetes analysis included 91,249 women free of diabetes and other major chronic diseases at baseline in 1991. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: The weight change analysis included 51,603 women for whom complete dietary information and body weight were ascertained in 1991, 1995, and 1999. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: We identified 741 incident cases of confirmed type 2 diabetes during 716,300 person-years of follow-up. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Weight gain and incidence of type 2 diabetes. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: RESULTS Those with stable consumption patterns had no difference in weight gain, but weight gain over a 4-year period was highest among women who increased their sugar-sweetened soft drink consumption from 1 or fewer drinks per week to 1 or more drinks per day (multivariate-adjusted means, 4.69 kg for 1991 to 1995 and 4.20 kg for 1995 to 1999) and was smallest among women who decreased their intake (1.34 and 0.15 kg for the 2 periods, respectively) after adjusting for lifestyle and dietary confounders. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: Increased consumption of fruit punch was also associated with greater weight gain compared with decreased consumption. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: After adjustment for potential confounders, women consuming 1 or more sugar-sweetened soft drinks per day had a relative risk [RR] of type 2 diabetes of 1.83 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.42-2.36; P<.001 for trend) compared with those who consumed less than 1 of these beverages per month. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: Similarly, consumption of fruit punch was associated with increased diabetes risk (RR for > or =1 drink per day compared with <1 drink per month, 2.00; 95% CI, 1.33-3.03; P =.001). Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: CONCLUSION Higher consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with a greater magnitude of weight gain and an increased risk for development of type 2 diabetes in women, possibly by providing excessive calories and large amounts of rapidly absorbable sugars. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: BACKGROUND Reducing sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption is a recommended strategy to promote optimal health. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: OBJECTIVE The objective was to describe trends in SSB consumption among youth and adults in the United States. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: DESIGN We analyzed energy intake from SSBs among 22,367 youth aged 2-19 y and 29,133 adults aged ≥20 y who participated in a 24-h dietary recall as part of NHANES, a nationally representative sample of the US population with a cross-sectional design, between 1999 and 2010. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: SSBs included soda, fruit drinks, sports and energy drinks, sweetened coffee and tea, and other sweetened beverages. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: Patterns of SSB consumption, including location of consumption and meal occasion associated with consumption, were also examined. Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: RESULTS In 2009-2010, youth consumed a mean (±SE) of 155 ± 7 kcal/d from SSBs, and adults consumed an age-adjusted mean (±SE) of 151 ± 5 kcal/d from SSBs--a decrease from 1999 to 2000 of 68 kcal/d and 45 kcal/d, respectively (P-trend < 0.001 for each). Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: In 2009-2010, SSBs contributed 8.0% ± 0.4% and 6.9% ± 0.2% of daily energy intake among youth and adults, respectively, which reflected a decrease compared with 1999-2000 (P-trend < 0.001 for both). Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: Decreases in SSB consumption, both in the home and away from home and also with both meals and snacks, occurred over the 12-y study duration (P-trend < 0.01 for each). Relevant:
Query: Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. Document: CONCLUSION A decrease in SSB consumption among youth and adults in the United States was observed between 1999 and 2010. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Background  Extensive debate exists in the healthcare community over whether outcomes of medical care at teaching hospitals and other healthcare units are better or worse than those at the respective nonteaching ones. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Thus, our goal was to systematically evaluate the evidence pertaining to this question. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Methods and Findings  We reviewed all studies that compared teaching versus nonteaching healthcare structures for mortality or any other patient outcome, regardless of health condition. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Studies were retrieved from PubMed, contact with experts, and literature cross-referencing. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Data were extracted on setting, patients, data sources, author affiliations, definition of compared groups, types of diagnoses considered, adjusting covariates, and estimates of effect for mortality and for each other outcome. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Overall, 132 eligible studies were identified, including 93 on mortality and 61 on other eligible outcomes (22 addressed both). Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Synthesis of the available adjusted estimates on mortality yielded a summary relative risk of 0.96 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.93–1.00) for teaching versus nonteaching healthcare structures and 1.04 (95% CI, 0.99–1.10) for minor teaching versus nonteaching ones. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: There was considerable heterogeneity between studies (I2 = 72% for the main analysis). Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Results were similar in studies using clinical and those using administrative databases. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: No differences were seen in the 14 studies fully adjusting for volume/experience, severity, and comorbidity (relative risk 1.01). Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Smaller studies did not differ in their results from larger studies. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Differences were seen for some diagnoses (e.g., significantly better survival for breast cancer and cerebrovascular accidents in teaching hospitals and significantly better survival from cholecystectomy in nonteaching hospitals), but these were small in magnitude. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Other outcomes were diverse, but typically teaching healthcare structures did not do better than nonteaching ones. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Conclusions  The available data are limited by their nonrandomized design, but overall they do not suggest that a healthcare facility's teaching status on its own markedly improves or worsens patient outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Differences for specific diseases cannot be excluded, but are likely to be small. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Objectives: To study the change in outcome for patients admitted to an intensive care unit following the establishment of a team of resident medical staff and a change from an "open" to a "closed" organisational format. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Design: Database review of prospectively collected data. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Setting: Intensive care unit of a postgraduate teaching hospital. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Subjects: 1134 admissions to the intensive care unit over a 3-year period, of whom 476 (42%) followed elective surgery. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Main outcome measure: Hospital mortality corrected for illness severity by using the APACHE II scoring system. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Results: Crude hospital mortality fell from 28% before the changes to 20% afterwards (P=0.01). Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: With correction for case-mix factors, the probability of death after the changes was reduced by almost half (OR 0.51; CI 0.32, 0.82, P=0.005). Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Conclusion: A "closed" format of organisation of the delivery of care may result in improved outcomes for patients admitted to intensive care units. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: OBJECTIVES To determine the incidence and clinical importance of errors in the preparation and administration of intravenous drugs and the stages of the process in which errors occur. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: DESIGN Prospective ethnographic study using disguised observation. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: PARTICIPANTS Nurses who prepared and administered intravenous drugs. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: SETTING 10 wards in a teaching and non-teaching hospital in the United Kingdom. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Number, type, and clinical importance of errors. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: RESULTS 249 errors were identified. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: At least one error occurred in 212 out of 430 intravenous drug doses (49%, 95% confidence interval 45% to 54%). Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Three doses (1%) had potentially severe errors, 126 (29%) potentially moderate errors, and 83 (19%) potentially minor errors. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Most errors occurred when giving bolus doses or making up drugs that required multiple step preparation. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: CONCLUSIONS The rate of intravenous drug errors was high. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: Although most errors would cause only short term adverse effects, a few could have been serious. Relevant:
Query: Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. Document: A combination of reducing the amount of preparation on the ward, training, and technology to administer slow bolus doses would probably have the greatest effect on error rates. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) is an aggressive cancer that strikes both adults and children and is frequently resistant to therapy. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Thus, identifying signals needed for AML propagation is a critical step toward developing new approaches for treating this disease. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Here, we show that Tetraspanin 3 is a target of the RNA binding protein Musashi 2, which plays a key role in AML. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: We generated Tspan3 knockout mice that were born without overt defects. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: However, Tspan3 deletion impaired leukemia stem cell self-renewal and disease propagation and markedly improved survival in mouse models of AML. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Additionally, Tspan3 inhibition blocked growth of AML patient samples, suggesting that Tspan3 is also important in human disease. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: As part of the mechanism, we show that Tspan3 deficiency disabled responses to CXCL12/SDF-1 and led to defects in AML localization within the niche. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: These identify Tspan3 as an important regulator of aggressive leukemias and highlight a role for Tspan3 in oncogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: We have developed a restriction map of the chromosome 21 breakpoint region involved in t(8;21)(q22;q22.3) acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and have isolated a genomic junction clone containing chromosome 8 and 21 material. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Using probes from these regions, rearrangements have been identified in each of nine cases of t(8;21) AML examined. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: In addition, we have isolated cDNA clones from a t(8;21) AML cDNA library that contain fused sequences from chromosome 8 and 21. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: The chromosome 8 component, referred to as ETO (for eight twenty-one), is encoded over a large genomic region, as suggested by the analysis of corresponding yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs). Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: The DNA sequence of the chromosome 21 portion of the fusion transcript is derived from the normal AML1 gene. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: A striking similarity (67% identity over 387 bp, with a corresponding 69% amino acid identity) was detected between AML1 and the Drosophila segmentation gene, runt. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: The critical consequence of the translocation is the juxtaposition of 5' sequences of AML1 to 3' sequences of ETO, oriented telomere to centromere on the der(8) chromosome. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Pancytopenia is a major cause of morbidity in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), yet its cause is unclear. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Normal osteoblastic cells have been shown to support hematopoiesis. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: To define the effects of leukemia on osteoblastic cells, we used an immunocompetent murine model of AML. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Leukemic mice had inhibition of osteoblastic cells, with decreased serum levels of the bone formation marker osteocalcin. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Osteoprogenitor cells and endosteal-lining osteopontin(+) cells were reduced, and osteocalcin mRNA in CD45(-) marrow cells was diminished. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: This resulted in severe loss of mineralized bone. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Osteoclasts were only transiently increased without significant increases in bone resorption, and their inhibition only partially rescued leukemia-induced bone loss. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: In vitro data suggested that a leukemia-derived secreted factor inhibited osteoblastic cells. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Because the chemokine CCL-3 was recently reported to inhibit osteoblastic function in myeloma, we tested its expression in our model and in AML patients. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Consistent with its potential novel role in leukemic-dependent bone loss, CCL-3 mRNA was significantly increased in malignant marrow cells from leukemic mice and from samples from AML patients. Relevant:
Query: Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia Document: Based on these results, we propose that therapeutic mitigation of leukemia-induced uncoupling of osteoblastic and osteoclastic cells may represent a novel approach to promote normal hematopoiesis in patients with myeloid neoplasms. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Deinococcus spp. are renowned for their amazing ability to recover rapidly from severe genomic fragmentation as a result of exposure to extreme levels of ionizing radiation or desiccation. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Despite having been originally characterized over 50 years ago, the mechanism underlying this remarkable repair process is still poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Here, we report the 2.8 A structure of DdrB, a single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) binding protein unique to Deinococcus spp. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: that is crucial for recovery following DNA damage. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: DdrB forms a pentameric ring capable of binding single-stranded but not double-stranded DNA. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Unexpectedly, the crystal structure reveals that DdrB comprises a novel fold that is structurally and topologically distinct from all other single-stranded binding (SSB) proteins characterized to date. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: The need for a unique ssDNA binding function in response to severe damage, suggests a distinct role for DdrB which may encompass not only standard SSB protein function in protection of ssDNA, but also more specialized roles in protein recruitment or DNA architecture maintenance. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Possible mechanisms of DdrB action in damage recovery are discussed. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Bacteria encode a single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) binding protein (SSB) crucial for genome maintenance. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: In Bacillus subtilis and Streptococcus pneumoniae, an alternative SSB, SsbB, is expressed uniquely during competence for genetic transformation, but its precise role has been disappointingly obscure. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Here, we report our investigations involving comparison of a null mutant (ssbB(-)) and a C-ter truncation (ssbBΔ7) of SsbB of S. pneumoniae, the latter constructed because SSBs' acidic tail has emerged as a key site for interactions with partner proteins. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: We provide evidence that SsbB directly protects internalized ssDNA. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: We show that SsbB is highly abundant, potentially allowing the binding of ~1.15 Mb ssDNA (half a genome equivalent); that it participates in the processing of ssDNA into recombinants; and that, at high DNA concentration, it is of crucial importance for chromosomal transformation whilst antagonizing plasmid transformation. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: While the latter observation explains a long-standing observation that plasmid transformation is very inefficient in S. pneumoniae (compared to chromosomal transformation), the former supports our previous suggestion that SsbB creates a reservoir of ssDNA, allowing successive recombination cycles. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: SsbBΔ7 fulfils the reservoir function, suggesting that SsbB C-ter is not necessary for processing protein(s) to access stored ssDNA. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: We propose that the evolutionary raison d'être of SsbB and its abundance is maintenance of this reservoir, which contributes to the genetic plasticity of S. pneumoniae by increasing the likelihood of multiple transformation events in the same cell. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: BACKGROUND Reducing sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption is a recommended strategy to promote optimal health. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: OBJECTIVE The objective was to describe trends in SSB consumption among youth and adults in the United States. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: DESIGN We analyzed energy intake from SSBs among 22,367 youth aged 2-19 y and 29,133 adults aged ≥20 y who participated in a 24-h dietary recall as part of NHANES, a nationally representative sample of the US population with a cross-sectional design, between 1999 and 2010. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: SSBs included soda, fruit drinks, sports and energy drinks, sweetened coffee and tea, and other sweetened beverages. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Patterns of SSB consumption, including location of consumption and meal occasion associated with consumption, were also examined. Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: RESULTS In 2009-2010, youth consumed a mean (±SE) of 155 ± 7 kcal/d from SSBs, and adults consumed an age-adjusted mean (±SE) of 151 ± 5 kcal/d from SSBs--a decrease from 1999 to 2000 of 68 kcal/d and 45 kcal/d, respectively (P-trend < 0.001 for each). Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: In 2009-2010, SSBs contributed 8.0% ± 0.4% and 6.9% ± 0.2% of daily energy intake among youth and adults, respectively, which reflected a decrease compared with 1999-2000 (P-trend < 0.001 for both). Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: Decreases in SSB consumption, both in the home and away from home and also with both meals and snacks, occurred over the 12-y study duration (P-trend < 0.01 for each). Relevant:
Query: The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. Document: CONCLUSION A decrease in SSB consumption among youth and adults in the United States was observed between 1999 and 2010. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Retinoic acid inducible-gene I (RIG-I) is a cytosolic multidomain protein that detects viral RNA and elicits an antiviral immune response. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Two N-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domains (CARDs) transmit the signal, and the regulatory domain prevents signaling in the absence of viral RNA. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: 5'-triphosphate and double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) are two molecular patterns that enable RIG-I to discriminate pathogenic from self-RNA. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: However, the function of the DExH box helicase domain that is also required for activity is less clear. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Using single-molecule protein-induced fluorescence enhancement, we discovered a robust adenosine 5'-triphosphate-powered dsRNA translocation activity of RIG-I. The CARDs dramatically suppress translocation in the absence of 5'-triphosphate, and the activation by 5'-triphosphate triggers RIG-I to translocate preferentially on dsRNA in cis. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: This functional integration of two RNA molecular patterns may provide a means to specifically sense and counteract replicating viruses. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Cathelicidins are a novel family of antimicrobial peptide precursors from mammalian myeloid cells. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: They are characterized by a conserved N-terminal region while the C-terminal antimicrobial domain can vary considerably in both primary sequence and length. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Four cathelicidins, proBac5, proBac7, prododecapeptide and proBMAP-28, have been concurrently purified from bovine neutrophils, using simple and rapid methodologies. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: The correlation of ES-MS data from the purified proteins with their cDNA-deduced sequences has revealed several common features of their primary sequence, such as the presence of N-terminal 5-oxoproline (pyroglutamate) residues and two disulfide bridges in a 1-2, 3-4 arrangement. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: The N-terminal domains of the cathelicidins present one or two Asp-Pro bonds, which are particularly acid-labile in proBac5 and proBac7, but stable in prododecapeptide. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: This suggests that the spatial organization around these bonds may vary in different cathelicidins, and favour hydrolysis in some cases. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: An unexpected feature of the prododecapeptide is that it exists as dimers formed by three possible combinations of its two isoforms. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: The isolation of a truncated, monomeric form of this protein, lacking the cysteine-containing antimicrobial dodecapeptide, indicates that dimerization occurs via disulfide bridge formation at the level of the C-terminal domain and that the dodecapeptide is likely released as a dimer from its precursor. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Sequence-based secondary structure predictions and CD results indicate for cathelicidins a 30-50% content of extended conformation and <20% content of alpha-helical conformation, with the alpha-helical segment placed near the N-terminus. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Finally, similarity searching and topology-based structure prediction underline a significant sequential and structural similarity between the conserved N-terminal domain of cathelicidins and cystatin-like domains, placing this family within the cystatin superfamily. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: When assayed against cathepsin L, unlike the potent cystatin inhibitors, three of the four cathelicidins show only a poor inhibitory activity (Ki = 0.6-3 microM). Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: NusG is a conserved regulatory protein that interacts with elongation complexes (ECs) of RNA polymerase, DNA, and RNA to modulate transcription in multiple and sometimes opposite ways. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: In Escherichia coli, NusG suppresses pausing and increases elongation rate, enhances termination by E. coli rho and phage HK022 Nun protein, and promotes antitermination by lambdaN and in ribosomal RNA operons. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: We report NMR studies that suggest that E. coli NusG consists of two largely independent N- and C-terminal structural domains, NTD and CTD, respectively. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: Based on tests of the functions of the NTD and CTD and variants of NusG in vivo and in vitro, we find that NTD alone is sufficient to suppress pausing and enhance transcript elongation in vitro. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: However, neither domain alone can enhance rho-dependent termination or support antitermination, indicating that interactions of both domains with ECs are required for these processes. Relevant:
Query: The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. Document: We propose that the two domains of NusG mediate distinct interactions with ECs: the NTD interacts with RNA polymerase and the CTD interacts with rho and other regulators, providing NusG with different combinations of interactions to effect different regulatory outcomes. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: The DExD/H box RNA helicase retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and the melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) are key intracellular receptors that recognize virus infection to produce type I IFN. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: A third helicase gene, Lgp2, is homologous to Rig-I and Mda5 but lacks a caspase activation and recruitment domain. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: We generated Lgp2-deficient mice and report that the loss of this gene greatly sensitizes cells to cytosolic polyinosinic/polycytidylic acid-mediated induction of type I IFN. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: However, negative feedback inhibition of IFN-beta transcription was found to be normal in the absence of LGP2, indicating that LGP2 is not the primary negative regulator of type I IFN production. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: Our data further indicate that Lgp2-/- mice exhibited resistance to lethal vesicular stomatitis virus infection, a virus whose replicative RNA intermediates are recognized specifically by RIG-I rather than by MDA5 to trigger the production of type I IFN. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: However, mice lacking LGP2 were observed to exhibit a defect in type I IFN production in response to infection by the encephalomyocarditis virus, the replication of which activates MDA5-dependent innate immune responses. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: Collectively, our data indicate a disparate regulatory role for LGP2 in the triggering of innate immune signaling pathways following RNA virus infection. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: Activation of the insect innate immune system is dependent on a limited number of pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) capable of interacting with pathogen-associated molecular pattern. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: Here we report a novel role of an alternatively spliced hypervariable immunoglobulin domain-encoding gene, Dscam, in generating a broad range of PRRs implicated in immune defense in the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: The mosquito Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule gene, AgDscam, has a complex genome organization with 101 exons that can produce over 31,000 potential alternative splice forms with different combinations of adhesive domains and interaction specificities. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: AgDscam responds to infection by producing pathogen challenge-specific splice form repertoires. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: Transient silencing of AgDscam compromises the mosquito's resistance to infections with bacteria and the malaria parasite Plasmodium. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: AgDscam is mediating phagocytosis of bacteria with which it can associate and defend against in a splice form–specific manner. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: AgDscam is a hypervariable PRR of the A. gambiae innate immune system. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: beta-Cell destruction in type 1 diabetes (T1D) is at least in part consequence of a 'dialog' between beta-cells and immune system. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: This dialog may be affected by the individual's genetic background. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: We presently evaluated whether modulation of MDA5 and PTPN2, two candidate genes for T1D, affects beta-cell responses to double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), a by-product of viral replication. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: These genes were selected following comparison between known candidate genes for T1D and genes expressed in pancreatic beta-cells, as identified in previous array analysis. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: INS-1E cells and primary fluorescence-activated cell sorting-purified rat beta-cells were transfected with small interference RNAs (siRNAs) targeting MDA5 or PTPN2 and subsequently exposed to intracellular synthetic dsRNA (polyinosinic-polycitidilic acid-PIC). Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: Real-time RT-PCR, western blot and viability assays were performed to characterize gene/protein expression and viability. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: PIC increased MDA5 and PTPN2 mRNA expression, which was inhibited by the specific siRNAs. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: PIC triggered apoptosis in INS-1E and primary beta-cells and this was augmented by PTPN2 knockdown (KD), although inhibition of MDA5 did not modify PIC-induced apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: In contrast, MDA5 silencing decreased PIC-induced cytokine and chemokine expression, although inhibition of PTPN2 induced minor or no changes in these inflammatory mediators. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: These findings indicate that changes in MDA5 and PTPN2 expression modify beta-cell responses to dsRNA. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: MDA5 regulates inflammatory signals, whereas PTPN2 may function as a defence mechanism against pro-apoptotic signals generated by dsRNA. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. Document: These two candidate genes for T1D may thus modulate beta-cell apoptosis and/or local release of inflammatory mediators in the course of a viral infection by acting, at least in part, at the pancreatic beta-cell level. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) produced during viral replication is believed to be the critical trigger for activation of antiviral immunity mediated by the RNA helicase enzymes retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5). Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: We showed that influenza A virus infection does not generate dsRNA and that RIG-I is activated by viral genomic single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) bearing 5'-phosphates. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: This is blocked by the influenza protein nonstructured protein 1 (NS1), which is found in a complex with RIG-I in infected cells. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: These results identify RIG-I as a ssRNA sensor and potential target of viral immune evasion and suggest that its ability to sense 5'-phosphorylated RNA evolved in the innate immune system as a means of discriminating between self and nonself. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: The DExD/H box RNA helicase retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and the melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) are key intracellular receptors that recognize virus infection to produce type I IFN. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: A third helicase gene, Lgp2, is homologous to Rig-I and Mda5 but lacks a caspase activation and recruitment domain. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: We generated Lgp2-deficient mice and report that the loss of this gene greatly sensitizes cells to cytosolic polyinosinic/polycytidylic acid-mediated induction of type I IFN. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: However, negative feedback inhibition of IFN-beta transcription was found to be normal in the absence of LGP2, indicating that LGP2 is not the primary negative regulator of type I IFN production. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: Our data further indicate that Lgp2-/- mice exhibited resistance to lethal vesicular stomatitis virus infection, a virus whose replicative RNA intermediates are recognized specifically by RIG-I rather than by MDA5 to trigger the production of type I IFN. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: However, mice lacking LGP2 were observed to exhibit a defect in type I IFN production in response to infection by the encephalomyocarditis virus, the replication of which activates MDA5-dependent innate immune responses. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: Collectively, our data indicate a disparate regulatory role for LGP2 in the triggering of innate immune signaling pathways following RNA virus infection. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: The objective of the present study was to determine if chicken melanoma-differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) senses infectious bursal disease virus infection to induce innate immunity that bridges to adaptive immunity. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: During IBDV infection in HD11 cells, IBDV titers and RNA loads increased up to 3.4 × 107 plaque-forming units (PFU)/mL and 1114 ng/µL, respectively, at 24 hours postinfection (hpi). Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: IBDV infection in HD11 cells induced significantly upregulated (p < 0.05) expression levels of chicken MDA5 (59-fold), interferon-β (IFN-β) (693-fold), dsRNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) (4-fold), 2’, 5’-oligoadenylate synthetase (OAS) (286-fold), myxovirus resistance gene (Mx) (22-fold), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) (5-fold), IL-6 (146-fold), IL-8 (4-fold), IL-10 (4-fold), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) (15-fold), and major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC class I) (4-fold). Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: Nitric oxide production in the culture supernatants increased significantly (p < 0.05) up to 6.5 μM at 24 hpi. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: The expressed chMDA5 and IBDV-derived dsRNA were localized in the cytoplasm of HD11 cells during IBDV infection. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: ChMDA5-knockdown HD11 cells had significantly higher (p < 0.05) IBDV RNA loads at 24 hpi and significantly lower (p < 0.05) nitric oxide production and expression levels of chicken MDA5, IFN-β, PKR, OAS, Mx, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12(p40), IL-18, IL-10, iNOS, MHC class I and CD86 at 24 hpi. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: In addition, chMDA5 overexpression in HD11 cells resulted in significantly reduced (p < 0.05) IBDV titers and RNA loads and significantly increased (p < 0.05) nitric oxide production at 16 and 24 hpi. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: It also resulted in significantly higher (p < 0.05) expression levels of chicken MDA5, IFN-β, PKR, OAS, Mx, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12(p40), IL-10 and iNOS at 2 hpi. Relevant:
Query: The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. Document: In conclusion, the results indicate that chMDA5 senses IBDV infection in chicken macrophages, and this is associated with IBDV-induced expression of IFN-β and initiation of an innate immune response that in turn activates the adaptive immune response and limits IBDV replication. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: CONTEXT Blood type and crossmatch incompatibility will exclude at least one third of patients in need from receiving a live donor kidney transplant. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Kidney paired donation (KPD) offers incompatible donor/recipient pairs the opportunity to match for compatible transplants. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Despite its increasing popularity, very few transplants have resulted from KPD. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine the potential impact of improved matching schemes on the number and quality of transplants achievable with KPD. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION We developed a model that simulates pools of incompatible donor/recipient pairs. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: We designed a mathematically verifiable optimized matching algorithm and compared it with the scheme currently used in some centers and regions. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Simulated patients from the general community with characteristics drawn from distributions describing end-stage renal disease patients eligible for renal transplantation and their willing and eligible live donors. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Number of kidneys matched, HLA mismatch of matched kidneys, and number of grafts surviving 5 years after transplantation. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: RESULTS A national optimized matching algorithm would result in more transplants (47.7% vs 42.0%, P<.001), better HLA concordance (3.0 vs 4.5 mismatched antigens; P<.001), more grafts surviving at 5 years (34.9% vs 28.7%; P<.001), and a reduction in the number of pairs required to travel (2.9% vs 18.4%; P<.001) when compared with an extension of the currently used first-accept scheme to a national level. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Furthermore, highly sensitized patients would benefit 6-fold from a national optimized scheme (2.3% vs 14.1% successfully matched; P<.001). Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Even if only 7% of patients awaiting kidney transplantation participated in an optimized national KPD program, the health care system could save as much as $750 million. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: CONCLUSIONS The combination of a national KPD program and a mathematically optimized matching algorithm yields more matches with lower HLA disparity. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Optimized matching affords patients the flexibility of customizing their matching priorities and the security of knowing that the greatest number of high-quality matches will be found and distributed equitably. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Providing transplantation opportunities for patients with incompatible live donors through kidney paired donation (KPD) is seen as one of the important strategies for easing the crisis in organ availability. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: It has been estimated that an additional 1000-2000 transplants per year could be accomplished if a national KPD program were implemented in the United States. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: While most of these transplants could be arranged within the participants' local or regional area, patients with hard-to-match blood types or broad HLA sensitization would benefit from matching across larger geographic areas. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: In this case, either patients or organs would need to travel in order to obtain maximum benefit from a national program. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: In this study, we describe how a triple KPD enabled a highly sensitized patient (PRA 96%) to receive a well-matched kidney from a live donor on the opposite coast. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: The kidney was removed in San Francisco and transported to Baltimore where it was reperfused 8 h later. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: The patient had prompt function and 1 year later has a serum creatinine of 1.1 mg/dl. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: This case provides a blueprint for solving some of the complexities that are inherent in the implementation of a national KPD program in a large country like the United States. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: We propose a Medicare Demonstration Project to develop a standard acquisition charge for kidney paired donation. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: A new payment strategy is required because Medicare and commercial insurance companies may not directly pay living donor costs intended to lead to transplantation of a beneficiary of a different insurance provider. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Until the 1970s, when organ procurement organizations were empowered to serve as financial intermediaries to pay the upfront recovery expenses for deceased donor kidneys before knowing the identity of the recipient, there existed similar limitations in the recovery and placement of deceased donor organs. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Analogous to the recovery of deceased donor kidneys, kidney paired donation requires the evaluation of living donors before identifying their recipient. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Tissue typing, crossmatching and transportation of living donors or their kidneys represent additional financial barriers. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: Finally, the administrative expenses of the organizations that identify and coordinate kidney paired donation transplantation require reimbursement akin to that necessary for organ procurement organizations. Relevant:
Query: The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. Document: To expand access to kidney paired donation for more patients, we propose a model to reimburse paired donation expenses analogous to the proven strategy used for over 30 years to pay for deceased donor solid organ transplantation in America. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: The Hippo pathway controls organ size and tissue homeostasis, with deregulation leading to cancer. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: The core Hippo components in mammals are composed of the upstream serine/threonine kinases Mst1/2, MAPK4Ks and Lats1/2. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Inactivation of these upstream kinases leads to dephosphorylation, stabilization, nuclear translocation and thus activation of the major functional transducers of the Hippo pathway, YAP and its paralogue TAZ. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: YAP/TAZ are transcription co-activators that regulate gene expression primarily through interaction with the TEA domain DNA-binding family of transcription factors (TEAD). Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: The current paradigm for regulation of this pathway centres on phosphorylation-dependent nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of YAP/TAZ through a complex network of upstream components. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: However, unlike other transcription factors, such as SMAD, NF-κB, NFAT and STAT, the regulation of TEAD nucleocytoplasmic shuttling has been largely overlooked. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: In the present study, we show that environmental stress promotes TEAD cytoplasmic translocation via p38 MAPK in a Hippo-independent manner. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Importantly, stress-induced TEAD inhibition predominates YAP-activating signals and selectively suppresses YAP-driven cancer cell growth. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Our data reveal a mechanism governing TEAD nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and show that TEAD localization is a critical determinant of Hippo signalling output. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: TAL (transcription activator-like) effectors constitute a novel class of DNA-binding proteins with predictable specificity. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: They are employed by Gram-negative plant-pathogenic bacteria of the genus Xanthomonas which translocate a cocktail of different effector proteins via a type III secretion system (T3SS) into plant cells where they serve as virulence determinants. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Inside the plant cell, TALs localize to the nucleus, bind to target promoters, and induce expression of plant genes. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: DNA-binding specificity of TALs is determined by a central domain of tandem repeats. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Each repeat confers recognition of one base pair (bp) in the DNA. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Rearrangement of repeat modules allows design of proteins with desired DNA-binding specificities. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Here, we summarize how TAL specificity is encoded, first structural data and first data on site-specific TAL nucleases. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, retinoic acids, and vitamin D bind to their receptors, which are now called steroid/nuclear receptors, and liganded receptors translocate either intracellularly or intranuclearly and form large protein complexes with cofactors to induce or repress gene transcription. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Therefore, steroid/nuclear receptors are ligand-dependent transcription factors. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: With the advent of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its color variants, the subcellular distribution of many steroid/nuclear receptors has been found to be much more dynamic than previously thought, with some of the receptors shuttling between the cytoplasm and nucleus. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Steroid/nuclear receptors can be divided into three categories based on their unliganded distribution: those that are primarily in the nucleus, those in the cytoplasm, and those with mixed cytoplasmic and nuclear distributions. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: However, in all cases, the addition of a ligand leads to almost complete nuclear translocation of the receptors. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Hormonal stimulation induces intranuclear receptor distribution from a homogeneous pattern to a heterogeneous dot-like image. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Ligand binding to steroid/nuclear receptors leads to the recruitment of many proteins including cofactors to provoke the redistribution of receptor complexes in the nucleus. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: This focal organization could involve more complex events than simple DNA binding sites for transcription. Relevant:
Query: The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. Document: Protein activities and interactions of steroid/nuclear receptors can be imaged and localized in a single cell. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: OBJECTIVE To describe the efficacy of the Finnish mass screening program for cervical squamous carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, as reflected by changes of incidence and mortality rate. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: METHODS Cervical cancer incidence and mortality data were obtained from the Finnish Cancer Registry. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Data were available from the year 1953, when the registry was established. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: The nationwide mass screening program in Finland was started in the mid-1960s. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: A centralized organization administers this program. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Women age 30-60 years are notified for screening every 5 years. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: RESULTS The mean incidence of cervical carcinoma in the early 1960s was 15.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: In 1991, it was only 2.7 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: The mortality rate has decreased in the same proportion since the mass screening program. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: In the early 1960s, the mortality was 6.6 and in 1991 1.4 per 10(5) woman-years. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: However, the decrease of the incidence is seen almost exclusively in squamous cell carcinomas. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: The mortality caused by adenocarcinoma has decreased in screened birth cohorts, but the incidence rate has remained the same. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: CONCLUSIONS The Finnish mass screening program has been effective and its continuation is of utmost importance. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: In the future more attention should be given to glandular cell atypias in cervical smears. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Thus, it might be possible to decrease the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Objective To determine the availability of data on overall survival and quality of life benefits of cancer drugs approved in Europe. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Design Retrospective cohort study. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Setting Publicly accessible regulatory and scientific reports on cancer approvals by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) from 2009 to 2013.Main outcome measures Pivotal and postmarketing trials of cancer drugs according to their design features (randomisation, crossover, blinding), comparators, and endpoints. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Availability and magnitude of benefit on overall survival or quality of life determined at time of approval and after market entry. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Validated European Society for Medical Oncology Magnitude of Clinical Benefit Scale (ESMO-MCBS) used to assess the clinical value of the reported gains in published studies of cancer drugs. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Results From 2009 to 2013, the EMA approved the use of 48 cancer drugs for 68 indications. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Of these, eight indications (12%) were approved on the basis of a single arm study. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: At the time of market approval, there was significant prolongation of survival in 24 of the 68 (35%). Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: The magnitude of the benefit on overall survival ranged from 1.0 to 5.8 months (median 2.7 months). Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: At the time of market approval, there was an improvement in quality of life in seven of 68 indications (10%). Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Out of 44 indications for which there was no evidence of a survival gain at the time of market authorisation, Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: in the subsequent postmarketing period there was evidence for extension of life in three (7%) and reported benefit on quality of life in five (11%). Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Of the 68 cancer indications with EMA approval, and with a median of 5.4 years' follow-up (minimum 3.3 years, maximum 8.1 years), only 35 (51%) had shown a significant improvement in survival or quality of life, while 33 (49%) remained uncertain. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Of 23 indications associated with a survival benefit that could be scored with the ESMO-MCBS tool, the benefit was judged to be clinically meaningful in less than half (11/23, 48%).Conclusions This systematic evaluation of oncology approvals by the EMA in 2009-13 shows that most drugs entered the market without evidence of benefit on survival or quality of life. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: At a minimum of 3.3 years after market entry, there was still no conclusive evidence that these drugs either extended or improved life for most cancer indications. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: When there were survival gains over existing treatment options or placebo, they were often marginal. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: The China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS) is a nationally representative longitudinal survey of persons in China 45 years of age or older and their spouses, including assessments of social, economic, and health circumstances of community-residents. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: CHARLS examines health and economic adjustments to rapid ageing of the population in China. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: The national baseline survey for the study was conducted between June 2011 and March 2012 and involved 17 708 respondents. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: CHARLS respondents are followed every 2 years, using a face-to-face computer-assisted personal interview (CAPI). Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Physical measurements are made at every 2-year follow-up, and blood sample collection is done once in every two follow-up periods. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: A pilot survey for CHARLS was conducted in two provinces of China in 2008, on 2685 individuals, who were resurveyed in 2012. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: To ensure the adoption of best practices and international comparability of results, CHARLS was harmonized with leading international research studies in the Health and Retirement Study (HRS) model. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: Requests for collaborations should be directed to Dr Yaohui Zhao (yhzhao@nsd.edu.cn). Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: All data in CHARLS are maintained at the National School of Development of Peking University and will be accessible to researchers around the world at the study website. Relevant:
Query: The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. Document: The 2008 pilot data for CHARLS are available at: http://charls.ccer.edu.cn/charls/. National baseline data for the study are expected to be released in January 2013. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: The Tat system transports folded proteins across bacterial and thylakoid membranes. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: In Gram-negative organisms, a TatABC substrate-binding complex and separate TatA complex are believed to coalesce to form an active translocon, with all three subunits essential for translocation. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Most Gram-positive organisms lack a tatB gene, indicating major differences in organization and possible differences in mode of action. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Here, we have studied Tat complexes encoded by the tatAdCd genes of Bacillus subtilis. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Expression of tatAdCd in an Escherichia coli tat null mutant results in efficient export of a large, cofactor-containing E. coli Tat substrate, TorA. We show that the tatAd gene complements E. coli mutants lacking either tatAE or tatB, indicating a bifunctional role for this subunit in B. subtilis. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Second, we have identified and characterized two distinct Tat complexes that are novel in key respects: a TatAdCd complex of approximately 230 kDa that is significantly smaller than the analogous E. coli TatABC complex (approximately 370 kDa on BN gels) and a separate TatAd complex. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: The latter is a discrete entity of approximately 270 kDa as judged by gel filtration chromatography, very different from the highly heterogeneous E. coli TatA complex that ranges in size from approximately 50 kDa to over 600 kDa. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: TatA heterogeneity has been linked to the varying size of Tat substrates being translocated, but the singular nature of the B. subtilis TatAd complex suggests that discrete TatAC and TatA complexes may form a single form of translocon. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: We propose a concept for the folding and self-assembly of the pore-forming TatA complex from the Twin-arginine translocase and of other membrane proteins based on electrostatic "charge zippers. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: " Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Each subunit of TatA consists of a transmembrane segment, an amphiphilic helix (APH), and a C-terminal densely charged region (DCR). Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: The sequence of charges in the DCR is complementary to the charge pattern on the APH, suggesting that the protein can be "zipped up" by a ladder of seven salt bridges. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: The length of the resulting hairpin matches the lipid bilayer thickness, hence a transmembrane pore could self-assemble via intra- and intermolecular salt bridges. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: The steric feasibility was rationalized by molecular dynamics simulations, and experimental evidence was obtained by monitoring the monomer-oligomer equilibrium of specific charge mutants. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Similar "charge zippers" are proposed for other membrane-associated proteins, e.g., the biofilm-inducing peptide TisB, the human antimicrobial peptide dermcidin, and the pestiviral E(RNS) protein. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Dynein is a microtubule motor that powers motility of cilia and flagella. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: There is evidence that the relative sliding of the doublet microtubules is due to a conformational change in the motor domain that moves a microtubule bound to the end of an extension known as the stalk. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: A predominant model for the movement involves a rotation of the head domain, with its stalk, toward the microtubule plus end. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: However, stalks bound to microtubules have been difficult to observe. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Here, we present the clearest views so far of stalks in action, by observing sea urchin, outer arm dynein molecules bound to microtubules, with a new method, "cryo-positive stain" electron microscopy. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: The dynein molecules in the complex were shown to be active in in vitro motility assays. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Analysis of the electron micrographs shows that the stalk angles relative to microtubules do not change significantly between the ADP.vanadate and no-nucleotide states, but the heads, together with their stalks, shift with respect to their A-tubule attachments. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: Our results disagree with models in which the stalk acts as a lever arm to amplify structural changes. Relevant:
Query: The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. Document: The observed movement of the head and stalk relative to the tail indicates a new plausible mechanism, in which dynein uses its stalk as a grappling hook, catching a tubulin subunit 8 nm ahead and pulling on it by retracting a part of the tail (linker). Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: AIMS To describe the characteristics of homeless children and families seen by the mental health outreach service (MHOS), to evaluate the impact of this service on the short term psychosocial functioning of children and parents, and to establish perceptions of, and satisfaction with, the service. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: METHODS Twenty seven children from 23 families who were in receipt of the MHOS and 27 children from 23 families residing in other hostels where no such service was available were studied. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The MHOS was delivered by a clinical nurse specialist with expertise in child mental health, who offered the following interventions: assessment and brief treatment of mental health disorders in children; liaison with agencies; and training of homeless centre staff. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: RESULTS Children in the experimental group had a significantly higher decrease in Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) total scores. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Having received the intervention was the strongest predictor of improvement in SDQ total scores. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: There was no significant impact on parental mental health (General Health Questionnaire) scores. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Homeless families and staff expressed high satisfaction with the MHOS. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: CONCLUSION This MHOS for homeless families is an innovative intervention which meets the complex and multiple needs of a vulnerable population unable to access mainstream mental health services. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The primary objective of the service was to improve child mental health problems; however, the service developed in a responsive way by meeting social and practical needs of families in addition to its clinical role. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Governments have shown an interest in early intervention strategies to reduce youth homelessness, but critics say that early intervention programs lack clear outcomes. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: This paper investigates what happens when early intervention programs are not in place and young people progress to adult homelessness. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The paper assesses the 'social adaptation' hypothesis that the longer young people are homeless the more they adapt to homelessness as a way of life. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The paper uses information on 1,677 individuals who first became homeless when they were 18 or younger. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Three-quarters of the sample had progressed to adult homelessness (defined as 25 or older) and one-quarter were now young adults aged 19 to 24. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The findings confirm that the longer people are homeless, the more difficult it becomes to get out of homelessness. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: However, the social adaptation account overstates the extent to which people accept homelessness as a 'way of life'. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: People can return to conventional accommodation if they are given long-term support. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The paper concludes with three policy recommendations. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: This article reviews and critiques community-based research on the effects of homelessness on children. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Homeless children confront serious threats to their ability to succeed and their future well-being. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Of particular concern are health problems, hunger, poor nutrition, developmental delays, anxiety, depression, behavioral problems, and educational underachievement. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Factors that may mediate the observed outcomes include inadequate shelter conditions, instability in residences and shelters, inadequate services, and barriers to accessing services that are available. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Public policy initiatives are needed to meet the needs of homeless children. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: AIMS To describe the characteristics of homeless children and families seen by the mental health outreach service (MHOS), to evaluate the impact of this service on the short term psychosocial functioning of children and parents, and to establish perceptions of, and satisfaction with, the service. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: METHODS Twenty seven children from 23 families who were in receipt of the MHOS and 27 children from 23 families residing in other hostels where no such service was available were studied. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The MHOS was delivered by a clinical nurse specialist with expertise in child mental health, who offered the following interventions: assessment and brief treatment of mental health disorders in children; liaison with agencies; and training of homeless centre staff. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: RESULTS Children in the experimental group had a significantly higher decrease in Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) total scores. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Having received the intervention was the strongest predictor of improvement in SDQ total scores. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: There was no significant impact on parental mental health (General Health Questionnaire) scores. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Homeless families and staff expressed high satisfaction with the MHOS. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: CONCLUSION This MHOS for homeless families is an innovative intervention which meets the complex and multiple needs of a vulnerable population unable to access mainstream mental health services. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The primary objective of the service was to improve child mental health problems; however, the service developed in a responsive way by meeting social and practical needs of families in addition to its clinical role. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Governments have shown an interest in early intervention strategies to reduce youth homelessness, but critics say that early intervention programs lack clear outcomes. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: This paper investigates what happens when early intervention programs are not in place and young people progress to adult homelessness. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The paper assesses the 'social adaptation' hypothesis that the longer young people are homeless the more they adapt to homelessness as a way of life. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The paper uses information on 1,677 individuals who first became homeless when they were 18 or younger. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Three-quarters of the sample had progressed to adult homelessness (defined as 25 or older) and one-quarter were now young adults aged 19 to 24. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The findings confirm that the longer people are homeless, the more difficult it becomes to get out of homelessness. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: However, the social adaptation account overstates the extent to which people accept homelessness as a 'way of life'. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: People can return to conventional accommodation if they are given long-term support. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: The paper concludes with three policy recommendations. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: This article reviews and critiques community-based research on the effects of homelessness on children. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Homeless children confront serious threats to their ability to succeed and their future well-being. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Of particular concern are health problems, hunger, poor nutrition, developmental delays, anxiety, depression, behavioral problems, and educational underachievement. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Factors that may mediate the observed outcomes include inadequate shelter conditions, instability in residences and shelters, inadequate services, and barriers to accessing services that are available. Relevant:
Query: The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. Document: Public policy initiatives are needed to meet the needs of homeless children. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Statins are widely used in the evidence-based lowering of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: The use of these drugs for secondary prevention of CVD is well founded, but their expanding use in primary prevention—in individuals without documented CVD—has raised some concerns. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Firstly, evidence suggests that, in primary prevention, statins substantially decrease CVD morbidity, but only moderately reduce CVD mortality. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Secondly, long-term statin use might cause adverse effects, such as incident diabetes mellitus. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Thirdly, the cost-effectiveness of such a strategy is unclear, and has to be balanced against the risk of 'overmedicating' the general population. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Data clearly support the use of statins for primary prevention in high-risk individuals, in whom the strategy is cost-effective and the benefits exceed the risks. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Whether primary prevention is beneficial in individuals at low or moderate risk is not certain. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Therefore, the prescription of statins for primary prevention should be individualized on the basis of clinical judgment, particularly for low-risk individuals. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: In appropriately selected individuals, statins should also be used for primary prevention of ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attack. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Statins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: In clinical trials, statins are beneficial in the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: However, the overall benefits observed with statins appear to be greater than what might be expected from changes in lipid levels alone, suggesting effects beyond cholesterol lowering. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Indeed, recent studies indicate that some of the cholesterol-independent or "pleiotropic" effects of statins involve improving endothelial function, enhancing the stability of atherosclerotic plaques, decreasing oxidative stress and inflammation, and inhibiting the thrombogenic response. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Furthermore, statins have beneficial extrahepatic effects on the immune system, CNS, and bone. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Many of these pleiotropic effects are mediated by inhibition of isoprenoids, which serve as lipid attachments for intracellular signaling molecules. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: In particular, inhibition of small GTP-binding proteins, Rho, Ras, and Rac, whose proper membrane localization and function are dependent on isoprenylation, may play an important role in mediating the pleiotropic effects of statins. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) affects more than 7% of adults in the US and leads to substantial personal and economic burden. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: In prediabetic states insulin secretion and action—potential targets of preventive interventions—are impaired. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: In trials lifestyle modification (i.e. weight loss and exercise) has proven effective in preventing incident T2DM in high-risk groups, although weight loss has the greatest effect. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Various medications (e.g. metformin, thiazolidinediones and acarbose) can also prevent or delay T2DM. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Whether diabetes-prevention strategies also ultimately prevent the development of diabetic vascular complications is unknown, but cardiovascular risk factors are favorably affected. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Preventive strategies that can be implemented in routine clinical settings have been developed and evaluated. Relevant:
Query: The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. Document: Widespread application has, however, been limited by local financial considerations, even though cost-effectiveness might be achieved at the population level. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: DNA-PKcs and Ku are essential components of the complex that catalyzes non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Ku, a heterodimeric protein, binds to DNA ends and facilitates recruitment of the catalytic subunit, DNA-PKcs. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: We have investigated the effect of DNA strand orientation and sequence bias on the activation of DNA-PK. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: In addition, we assessed the effect of the position and strand orientation of cisplatin adducts on kinase activation. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: A series of duplex DNA substrates with site-specific cisplatin–DNA adducts placed in three different orientations on the duplex DNA were prepared. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Terminal biotin modification and streptavidin (SA) blocking was employed to direct DNA-PK binding to the unblocked termini with a specific DNA strand orientation and cisplatin–DNA adduct position. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: DNA-PK kinase activity was measured and the results reveal that DNA strand orientation and sequence bias dramatically influence kinase activation, only a portion of which could be attributed to Ku-DNA binding activity. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: In addition, cisplatin–DNA adduct position resulted in differing degrees of inhibition depending on distance from the terminus as well as strand orientation. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: These results highlight the importance of how local variations in DNA structure, chemistry and sequence influence DNA-PK activation and potentially NHEJ. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Synthetic gene expression is highly sensitive to intragenic compositional context (promoter structure, spacing regions between promoter and coding sequences, and ribosome binding sites). Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: However, much less is known about the effects of intergenic compositional context (spatial arrangement and orientation of entire genes on DNA) on expression levels in synthetic gene networks. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: We compare expression of induced genes arranged in convergent, divergent, or tandem orientations. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Induction of convergent genes yielded up to 400% higher expression, greater ultrasensitivity, and dynamic range than divergent- or tandem-oriented genes. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Orientation affects gene expression whether one or both genes are induced. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: We postulate that transcriptional interference in divergent and tandem genes, mediated by supercoiling, can explain differences in expression and validate this hypothesis through modeling and in vitro supercoiling relaxation experiments. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Treatment with gyrase abrogated intergenic context effects, bringing expression levels within 30% of each other. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: We rebuilt the toggle switch with convergent genes, taking advantage of supercoiling effects to improve threshold detection and switch stability. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Ex-FABP, an extracellular fatty acid binding lipocalin, is physiologically expressed by differentiating chicken chondrocytes and myoblasts. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Its expression is enhanced after cell treatment with inflammatory stimuli and repressed by anti-inflammatory agents, behaving as an acute phase protein. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Chicken liver fragments in culture show enhanced protein expression after bacterial endotoxin treatment. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: To investigate the biological role of Ex-FABP, we stably transfected proliferating chondrocytes with an expression vector carrying antisense oriented Ex-FABP cDNA. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: We observed a dramatic loss of cell viability and a strong inhibition of cell proliferation and differentiation. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: When chondrocytes were transfected with the antisense oriented Ex-FABP cDNA we observed that Ex-FABP down-modulation increased apoptotic cell number. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: Myoblasts transfected with the same expression vector showed extensive cell death and impaired myotube formation. Relevant:
Query: The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. Document: We suggest that Ex-FABP acts as a constitutive survival protein and that its expression and activation are fundamental to protect chondrocytes from cell death. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Granulomas are the pathological hallmark of tuberculosis (TB). Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: However, their function and mechanisms of formation remain poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: To understand the role of granulomas in TB, we analyzed the proteomes of granulomas from subjects with tuberculosis in an unbiased manner. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Using laser-capture microdissection, mass spectrometry and confocal microscopy, we generated detailed molecular maps of human granulomas. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: We found that the centers of granulomas have a pro-inflammatory environment that is characterized by the presence of antimicrobial peptides, reactive oxygen species and pro-inflammatory eicosanoids. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Conversely, the tissue surrounding the caseum has a comparatively anti-inflammatory signature. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: These findings are consistent across a set of six human subjects and in rabbits. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Although the balance between systemic pro- and anti-inflammatory signals is crucial to TB disease outcome, here we find that these signals are physically segregated within each granuloma. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: From the protein and lipid snapshots of human and rabbit lesions analyzed here, we hypothesize that the pathologic response to TB is shaped by the precise anatomical localization of these inflammatory pathways during the development of the granuloma. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Macrophages play a pivotal role in innate and acquired immune responses to Schistosoma mansoni. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Classical (M1) or alternative (M2) activation states of these cells further delineate their roles in tissue damage through innate immunity or fibrotic remodeling, respectively. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: In the present study, we addressed the following question: Does systemic Th2-type cytokine polarization evoked by S. mansoni affect macrophage differentiation and activation? Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: To this end, we analyzed bone marrow-derived macrophages from mice with S. mansoni egg-induced pulmonary granulomas and unchallenged (or naïve) mice to determine their activation state and their response to specific TLR agonists, including S. mansoni egg antigens. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Unlike naïve macrophages, macrophages from Th2-polarized mice constitutively expressed significantly higher "found in inflammatory zone-1" (FIZZ1) and ST2 (M2 markers) and significantly lower NO synthase 2, CCL3, MIP-2, TNF-alpha, and IL-12 (M1 markers). Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Also, compared with naïve macrophages, Th2-polarized macrophages exhibited enhanced responses to the presence of specific TLR agonists, which consistently induced significantly higher levels of gene and protein levels for M2 and M1 markers in these cells. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Together, these data show that signals received by bone marrow precursors during S. mansoni egg-induced granuloma responses dynamically alter the development of macrophages and enhance the TLR responsiveness of these cells, which may ultimately have a significant effect on the pulmonary granulomatous response. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Membrane cholesterol modulates a variety of cell signaling pathways and functions. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: While cholesterol depletion by high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) has potent anti-inflammatory effects in various cell types, its effects on inflammatory responses in macrophages remain elusive. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Here we show overt pro-inflammatory effects of HDL-mediated passive cholesterol depletion and lipid raft disruption in murine and human primary macrophages in vitro. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: These pro-inflammatory effects were confirmed in vivo in peritoneal macrophages from apoA-I transgenic mice, which have elevated HDL levels. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: In line with these findings, the innate immune responses required for clearance of P. aeruginosa bacterial infection in lung were compromised in mice with low HDL levels. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: Expression analysis, ChIP-PCR, and combinatorial pharmacological and genetic intervention studies unveiled that both native and reconstituted HDL enhance Toll-like-receptor-induced signaling by activating a PKC-NF-κB/STAT1-IRF1 axis, leading to increased inflammatory cytokine expression. Relevant:
Query: The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. Document: HDL's pro-inflammatory activity supports proper functioning of macrophage immune responses. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Using mouse skin, where bountiful reservoirs of synchronized hair follicle stem cells (HF-SCs) fuel cycles of regeneration, we explore how adult SCs remodel chromatin in response to activating cues. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: By profiling global mRNA and chromatin changes in quiescent and activated HF-SCs and their committed, transit-amplifying (TA) progeny, we show that polycomb-group (PcG)-mediated H3K27-trimethylation features prominently in HF-lineage progression by mechanisms distinct from embryonic-SCs. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: In HF-SCs, PcG represses nonskin lineages and HF differentiation. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: In TA progeny, nonskin regulators remain PcG-repressed, HF-SC regulators acquire H3K27me3-marks, and HF-lineage regulators lose them. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Interestingly, genes poised in embryonic stem cells, active in HF-SCs, and PcG-repressed in TA progeny encode not only key transcription factors, but also signaling regulators. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: We document their importance in balancing HF-SC quiescence, underscoring the power of chromatin mapping in dissecting SC behavior. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Our findings explain how HF-SCs cycle through quiescent and activated states without losing stemness and define roles for PcG-mediated repression in governing a fate switch irreversibly. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: In this protocol, we describe how to isolate keratinocytes from adult mouse epidermis, fractionate them into different sub-populations on the basis of cell surface markers and examine their function in an in vivo skin reconstitution assay with disaggregated neonatal dermal cells. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: We also describe how the isolated keratinocytes can be subjected to clonal analysis in vitro and in vivo and how to enrich for hair follicle-inducing dermal papilla cells in the dermal preparation. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Using these approaches, it is possible to compare the capacity of different populations of adult epidermal stem cells to proliferate and to generate progeny that differentiate along the different epidermal lineages. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Isolating, fractionating and grafting cells for the skin reconstitution assay is normally spread over 2 d. Clonal growth in culture is assessed after 14 d, while evaluation of the grafts is carried out after 4–5 weeks. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Most adult stem cells, including hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), are maintained in a quiescent or resting state in vivo. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Quiescence is widely considered to be an essential protective mechanism for stem cells that minimizes endogenous stress caused by cellular respiration and DNA replication. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: We demonstrate that HSC quiescence can also have detrimental effects. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: We found that HSCs have unique cell-intrinsic mechanisms ensuring their survival in response to ionizing irradiation (IR), which include enhanced prosurvival gene expression and strong activation of p53-mediated DNA damage response. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: We show that quiescent and proliferating HSCs are equally radioprotected but use different types of DNA repair mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: We describe how nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ)-mediated DNA repair in quiescent HSCs is associated with acquisition of genomic rearrangements, which can persist in vivo and contribute to hematopoietic abnormalities. Relevant:
Query: The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. Document: Our results demonstrate that quiescence is a double-edged sword that renders HSCs intrinsically vulnerable to mutagenesis following DNA damage. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Self-renewal and differentiation of stem cells depend on asymmetric division and polarized motility processes that in other cell types are modulated by nonmuscle myosin-II (MII) forces and matrix mechanics. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Here, mass spectrometry-calibrated intracellular flow cytometry of human hematopoiesis reveals MIIB to be a major isoform that is strongly polarized in hematopoietic stem cells and progenitors (HSC/Ps) and thereby downregulated in differentiated cells via asymmetric division. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: MIIA is constitutive and activated by dephosphorylation during cytokine-triggered differentiation of cells grown on stiff, endosteum-like matrix, but not soft, marrow-like matrix. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: In vivo, MIIB is required for generation of blood, while MIIA is required for sustained HSC/P engraftment. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Reversible inhibition of both isoforms in culture with blebbistatin enriches for long-term hematopoietic multilineage reconstituting cells by 5-fold or more as assessed in vivo. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Megakaryocytes also become more polyploid, producing 4-fold more platelets. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: MII is thus a multifunctional node in polarized division and niche sensing. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Actions of protein products resulting from alternative splicing of the Igf1 gene have received increasing attention in recent years. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: However, the significance and functional relevance of these observations remain poorly defined. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: To address functions of IGF-I splice variants, we examined the impact of loss of IGF-IEa and IGF-IEb on the proliferation and differentiation of cultured mouse myoblasts. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: RNA interference-mediated reductions in total IGF-I, IGF-IEa alone, or IGF-IEb alone had no effect on cell viability in growth medium. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: However, cells deficient in total IGF-I or IGF-IEa alone proliferated significantly slower than control cells or cells deficient in IGF-IEb in serum-free media. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Simultaneous loss of both or specific loss of either splice variant significantly inhibited myosin heavy chain (MyHC) immunoreactivity by 70-80% (P < 0.01) under differentiation conditions (48 h in 2% horse serum) as determined by Western immunoblotting. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: This loss in protein was associated with reduced MyHC isoform mRNAs, because reductions in total IGF-I or IGF-IEa mRNA significantly reduced MyHC mRNAs by approximately 50-75% (P < 0.05). Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Loss of IGF-IEb also reduced MyHC isoform mRNA significantly, with the exception of Myh7, but to a lesser degree (∼20-40%, P < 0.05). Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Provision of mature IGF-I, but not synthetic E peptides, restored Myh3 expression to control levels in cells deficient in IGF-IEa or IGF-IEb. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Collectively, these data suggest that IGF-I splice variants may regulate myoblast differentiation through the actions of mature IGF-I and not the E peptides. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Background: The relationship of LPA single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), apolipoprotein(a) isoforms, and lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] levels with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in different ethnic groups is not well known. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Methods: LPA SNPs, apolipoprotein(a) isoforms, Lp(a), and oxidized phospholipids on apolipoprotein B-100 (OxPL-apoB) levels were measured in 1792 black, 1030 white, and 597 Hispanic subjects enrolled in the Dallas Heart Study. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Their interdependent relationships and prospective association with MACE after median 9.5-year follow-up were determined. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Results: LPA SNP rs3798220 was most prevalent in Hispanics (42.38%), rs10455872 in whites (14.27%), and rs9457951 in blacks (32.92%). Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: The correlation of each of these SNPs with the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform size was highly variable and in different directions among ethnic groups. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: In the entire cohort, Cox regression analysis with multivariable adjustment revealed that quartiles 4 of Lp(a) and OxPL-apoB were associated with hazard ratios (95% confidence interval) for time to MACE of 2.35 (1.50–3.69, P<0.001) and 1.89 (1.26–2.84, P=0.003), respectively, versus quartile 1. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Addition of the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform and the 3 LPA SNPs to these models attenuated the risk, but significance was maintained for both Lp(a) and OxPL-apoB. Evaluating time to MACE in specific ethnic groups, Lp(a) was a positive predictor and the size of the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform was an inverse predictor in blacks, the size of the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform was an inverse predictor in whites, and OxPL-apoB was a positive predictor in Hispanics. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: Conclusions: The prevalence and association of LPA SNPs with size of apolipoprotein(a) isoforms, Lp(a), and OxPL-apoB levels are highly variable and ethnicity-specific. Relevant:
Query: The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. Document: The relationship to MACE is best explained by elevated plasma Lp(a) or OxPL-apoB levels, despite significant ethnic differences in LPA genetic markers. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Neurogenesis occurs in the hippocampus of the developing and adult brain due to the presence of multipotent stem cells and restricted precursor cells at different stages of differentiation. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: It has been proposed that they may be of potential benefit for use in cell transplantation approaches for neurodegenerative disorders and trauma. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Prolonged release of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) from activated microglia has a deleterious effect on hippocampal neurons and is implicated in the impaired neurogenesis and cognitive dysfunction associated with aging, Alzheimer's disease and depression. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: This study assessed the effect of IL-1β on the proliferation and differentiation of embryonic rat hippocampal NPCs in vitro. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: We show that IL-1R1 is expressed on proliferating NPCs and that IL-1β treatment decreases cell proliferation and neurosphere growth. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: When NPCs were differentiated in the presence of IL-1β, a significant reduction in the percentages of newly-born neurons and post-mitotic neurons and a significant increase in the percentage of astrocytes was observed in these cultures. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: These effects were attenuated by IL-1 receptor antagonist. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: These data reveal that IL-1β exerts an anti-proliferative, anti-neurogenic and pro-gliogenic effect on embryonic hippocampal NPCs, which is mediated by IL-1R1. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: The present results emphasise the consequences of an inflammatory environment during NPC development, and indicate that strategies to inhibit IL-1β signalling may be necessary to facilitate effective cell transplantation approaches or in conditions where endogenous hippocampal neurogenesis is impaired. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: BACKGROUND CCR2 plays a key role in regulating monocyte trafficking to sites of inflammation and therefore has been the focus of much interest as a target for inflammatory disease. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: METHODS Here we examined the effects of CCR2 blockade with a potent small molecule antagonist to determine the pharmacodynamic consequences on the peripheral blood monocyte compartment in the context of acute and chronic inflammatory processes. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: RESULTS We demonstrate that CCR2 antagonism in vivo led to a rapid decrease in the number of circulating Ly6Chi monocytes and that this decrease was largely due to the CXCR4-dependent sequestration of these cells in the bone marrow, providing pharmacological evidence for a mechanism by which monocyte dynamics are regulated in vivo. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: CCR2 antagonism led to an accumulation of circulating CCL2 and CCL7 levels in the blood, indicating a role for CCR2 in regulating the levels of its ligands under homeostatic conditions. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Finally, we show that the pharmacodynamic changes due to CCR2 antagonism were apparent after chronic dosing in mouse experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, a model in which CCR2 blockade demonstrated a dramatic reduction in disease severity, manifest in a reduced accumulation of monocytes and other cells in the CNS. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: CONCLUSION CCR2 antagonism in vivo has tractable pharmacodynamic effects that can be used to align target engagement with biologic effects on disease activity. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Injured axons of the adult CNS undergo lengthy retraction from the initial site of axotomy after spinal cord injury. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Macrophage infiltration correlates spatiotemporally with this deleterious phenomenon, but the direct involvement of these inflammatory cells has not been demonstrated. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: In the present study, we examined the role of macrophages in axonal retraction within the dorsal columns after spinal cord injury in vivo and found that retraction occurred between days 2 and 28 after lesion and that the ends of injured axons were associated with ED-1+ cells. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Clodronate liposome-mediated depletion of infiltrating macrophages resulted in a significant reduction in axonal retraction; however, we saw no evidence of regeneration. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: We used time-lapse imaging of adult dorsal root ganglion neurons in an in vitro model of the glial scar to examine macrophage-axon interactions and observed that adhesive contacts and considerable physical interplay between macrophages and dystrophic axons led to extensive axonal retraction. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: The induction of retraction was dependent on both the growth state of the axon and the activation state of the macrophage. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Only dystrophic adult axons were susceptible to macrophage "attack. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: " Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Unlike intrinsically active cell line macrophages, both primary macrophages and microglia required activation to induce axonal retraction. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Contact with astrocytes had no deleterious effect on adult dystrophic axons, suggesting that the induction of extensive retraction was specific to phagocytic cells. Relevant:
Query: The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. Document: Our data are the first to indicate a direct role of activated macrophages in axonal retraction by physical cell-cell interactions with injured axons. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: The signals and molecular mechanisms that regulate the replication of terminally differentiated beta cells are unknown. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Here, we report the identification and characterization of transmembrane protein 27 (Tmem27, collectrin) in pancreatic beta cells. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Expression of Tmem27 is reduced in Tcf1(-/-) mice and is increased in islets of mouse models with hypertrophy of the endocrine pancreas. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Tmem27 forms dimers and its extracellular domain is glycosylated, cleaved and shed from the plasma membrane of beta cells. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: This cleavage process is beta cell specific and does not occur in other cell types. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Overexpression of full-length Tmem27, but not the truncated or soluble protein, leads to increased thymidine incorporation, whereas silencing of Tmem27 using RNAi results in a reduction of cell replication. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Furthermore, transgenic mice with increased expression of Tmem27 in pancreatic beta cells exhibit increased beta cell mass. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Our results identify a pancreatic beta cell transmembrane protein that regulates cell growth of pancreatic islets. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: ADAM13 is a member of the disintegrin and metalloprotease protein family that is expressed on cranial neural crest cells surface and is essential for their migration. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: ADAM13 is an active protease that can cleave fibronectin in vitro and remodel a fibronectin substrate in vivo. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Using a recombinant secreted protein containing both disintegrin and cysteine-rich domains of ADAM13, we show that this "adhesive" region of the protein binds directly to fibronectin. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Fibronectin fusion proteins corresponding to the various functional domains were used to define the second heparin-binding domain as the ADAM13 binding site. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Mutation of the syndecan-binding site (PPRR --> PPTM) within this domain abolishes binding of the recombinant disintegrin and cysteine-rich domains of ADAM13. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: We further show that the adhesive disintegrin and cysteine-rich domain of ADAM13 can promote cell adhesion via beta(1) integrins. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: This adhesion requires integrin activation and can be prevented by antibodies to the cysteine-rich domain of ADAM13 and beta(1) integrin. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Finally, wild type, but not the E/A mutant of ADAM13 metalloprotease domain, can be shed from the cell surface, releasing the metalloprotease domain associated with the disintegrin and cysteine-rich domains. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: This suggests that ADAM13 shedding may involve its own metalloprotease activity and that the released protease may interact with both integrins and extracellular matrix proteins. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: A set of 57 synthetic peptides encompassing the entire triplehelical domain of human collagen III was used to locate binding sites for the collagen-binding integrin alpha(2)beta(1). Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: The capacity of the peptides to support Mg(2+)-dependent binding of several integrin preparations was examined. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Wild-type integrins (recombinant alpha(2) I-domain, alpha(2)beta(1) purified from platelet membranes, and recombinant soluble alpha(2)beta(1) expressed as an alpha(2)-Fos/beta(1)-Jun heterodimer) bound well to only three peptides, two containing GXX'GER motifs (GROGER and GMOGER, where O is hydroxyproline) and one containing two adjacent GXX'GEN motifs (GLKGEN and GLOGEN). Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Two mutant alpha(2) I-domains were tested: the inactive T221A mutant, which recognized no peptides, and the constitutively active E318W mutant, which bound a larger subset of peptides. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Adhesion of activated human platelets to GER-containing peptides was greater than that of resting platelets, and HT1080 cells bound well to more of the peptides compared with platelets. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Binding of cells and recombinant proteins was abolished by anti-alpha(2) monoclonal antibody 6F1 and by chelation of Mg(2+). Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: We describe two novel high affinity integrin-binding motifs in human collagen III (GROGER and GLOGEN) and a third motif (GLKGEN) that displays intermediate activity. Relevant:
Query: The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. Document: Each motif was verified using shorter synthetic peptides. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: To define the genetic changes of flat urothelial lesions, carcinoma in situ (CIS) and moderate dysplasias (DII) were investigated for alterations in the two chromosomal regions most frequently involved in bladder cancer. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Overall, 33 CIS and 16 DII from 21 patients were used to microdissect urothelium. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Dual color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using gene locus probes of 9q22 (FACC), 9p21 (CDK), 17p13 (p53), and related centromeric probes was applied on interphase nuclei. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: In parallel, preamplified DNA of these samples was used for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) analyses with eight microsatellite markers on chromosomes 9p, 9q and 17p, and for sequencing of exons 5-9 of p53. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Data indicated nearly identical deletion frequencies for chromosomes 9 and 17 for CIS (chromosome 9, 86%; p53, 84%). Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: DII showed a lower deletion rate in comparison with CIS (chromosome 9, 75%; p53, 53%). Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: A very high correlation between the results of FISH and LOH analyses was found. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: p53 mutations were detected in 12 of 15 patients (CIS, 72%; DII, 67%). Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: In three of 16 patients with multifocal tumors, oligoclonal lesions were identified by LOH analyses, a finding further supported by sequencing of p53, by which two different p53 deletions were detected in two cases. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: In conclusion, data from microdissected flat urothelial lesions indicate that chromosome 9 deletions cannot be regarded as indicators of papillary growth, because they are found frequently in both types of flat lesions of the urothelium: those associated with papillary tumors and those that are not. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: The similar distribution and lower amount of genetic changes in DII render DII a possible precursor lesion of CIS. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Mouse pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) are the best studied pluripotent system and are regarded as the "gold standard" to which human PSCs are compared. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: However, while the genomic integrity of human PSCs has recently drawn much attention, mouse PSCs have not been systematically evaluated in this regard. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: The genomic stability of PSCs is a matter of profound significance, as it affects their pluripotency, differentiation, and tumorigenicity. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: We thus performed a thorough analysis of the genomic integrity of 325 samples of mouse PSCs, including 127 induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) samples. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: We found that genomic aberrations occur frequently in mouse embryonic stem cells of various mouse strains, add in mouse iPSCs of various cell origins and derivation techniques. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Four hotspots of chromosomal aberrations were detected: full trisomy 11 (with a minimally recurrent gain in 11qE2), full trisomy 8, and deletions in chromosomes 10qB and 14qC-14qE. The most recurrent aberration in mouse PSCs, gain 11qE2, turned out to be fully syntenic to the common aberration 17q25 in human PSCs, while other recurrent aberrations were found to be species specific. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Analysis of chromosomal aberrations in 74 samples of rhesus macaque PSCs revealed a gain in chromosome 16q, syntenic to the hotspot in human 17q. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Importantly, these common aberrations jeopardize the interpretation of published comparisons of PSCs, which were unintentionally conducted between normal and aberrant cells. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: Therefore, this work emphasizes the need to carefully monitor genomic integrity of PSCs from all species, for their proper use in biomedical research. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: The first Swiss human embryonic stem cell (hESC) line, CH-ES1, has shown features of a malignant cell line. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: It originated from the only single blastomere that survived cryopreservation of an embryo, and it more closely resembles teratocarcinoma lines than other hESC lines with respect to its abnormal karyotype and its formation of invasive tumors when injected into SCID mice. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: The aim of this study was to characterize the molecular basis of the oncogenicity of CH-ES1 cells, we looked for abnormal chromosomal copy number (by array Comparative Genomic Hybridization, aCGH) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: To see how unique these changes were, we compared these results to data collected from the 2102Ep teratocarcinoma line and four hESC lines (H1, HS293, HS401 and SIVF-02) which displayed normal G-banding result. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: We identified genomic gains and losses in CH-ES1, including gains in areas containing several oncogenes. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: These features are similar to those observed in teratocarcinomas, and this explains the high malignancy. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: The CH-ES1 line was trisomic for chromosomes 1, 9, 12, 17, 19, 20 and X. Also the karyotypically (based on G-banding) normal hESC lines were also found to have several genomic changes that involved genes with known roles in cancer. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: The largest changes were found in the H1 line at passage number 56, when large 5 Mb duplications in chromosomes 1q32.2 and 22q12.2 were detected, but the losses and gains were seen already at passage 22. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: These changes found in the other lines highlight the importance of assessing the acquisition of genetic changes by hESCs before their use in regenerative medicine applications. Relevant:
Query: The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. Document: They also point to the possibility that the acquisition of genetic changes by ESCs in culture may be used to explore certain aspects of the mechanisms regulating oncogenesis. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: To identify new genetic factors for colorectal cancer (CRC), we conducted a                 genome-wide association study in east Asians. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: By analyzing genome-wide data in 2,098                 cases and 5,749 controls, we selected 64 promising SNPs for replication in an                 independent set of samples, including up to 5,358 cases and 5,922 controls. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: We                 identified four SNPs with association P values of 8.58 ×                     10(-7) to 3.77 × 10(-10)                 in the combined analysis of all east Asian samples. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Three of the four were                 replicated in a study conducted in 26,060 individuals of European descent, with                 combined P values of 1.22 × 10(-10) for                 rs647161 (5q31.1), 6.64 × 10(-9) for rs2423279                 (20p12.3) and 3.06 × 10(-8) for rs10774214                 (12p13.32 near the CCND2 gene), derived from meta-analysis of data from both                 east Asian and European-ancestry populations. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: This study identified three new CRC                 susceptibility loci and provides additional insight into the genetics and biology of                 CRC. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) can stimulate tumor progression by modulating several proneoplastic pathways, including proliferation, angiogenesis, cell migration, invasion, and apoptosis. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Although steady-state tissue levels of PGE2 stem from relative rates of biosynthesis and breakdown, most reports examining PGE2 have focused solely on the cyclooxygenase-dependent formation of this bioactive lipid. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Enzymatic degradation of PGE2 involves the NAD+-dependent 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH). Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: The present study examined a range of normal tissues in the human and mouse and found high levels of 15-PGDH in the large intestine. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: By contrast, the expression of 15-PGDH is decreased in several colorectal carcinoma cell lines and in other human malignancies such as breast and lung carcinomas. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Consistent with these findings, we observe diminished 15-Pgdh expression in ApcMin+/- mouse adenomas. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Enzymatic activity of 15-PGDH correlates with expression levels and the genetic disruption of 15-Pgdh completely blocks production of the urinary PGE2 metabolite. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Finally, 15-PGDH expression and activity are significantly down-regulated in human colorectal carcinomas relative to matched normal tissue. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: In summary, these results suggest a novel tumor suppressive role for 15-PGDH due to loss of expression during colorectal tumor progression. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: PD-L1 is an immunoinhibitory molecule that suppresses the activation of T cells, leading to the progression of tumors. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Overexpression of PD-L1 in cancers such as gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, esophageal cancer, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, and bladder cancer is associated with poor clinical outcomes. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: In contrast, PD-L1 expression correlates with better clinical outcomes in breast cancer and merkel cell carcinoma. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: The prognostic value of PD-L1 expression in lung cancer, colorectal cancer, and melanoma is controversial. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Blocking antibodies that target PD-1 and PD-L1 have achieved remarkable response rates in cancer patients who have PD-L1-overexpressing tumors. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: However, using PD-L1 as an exclusive predictive biomarker for cancer immunotherapy is questionable due to the low accuracy of PD-L1 immunohistochemistry staining. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Factors that affect the accuracy of PD-L1 immunohistochemistry staining are as follows. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: First, antibodies used in different studies have different sensitivity. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Second, in different studies, the cut-off value of PD-L1 staining positivity is different. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Third, PD-L1 expression in tumors is not uniform, and sampling time and location may affect the results of PD-L1 staining. Relevant:
Query: The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. Document: Therefore, better understanding of tumor microenvironment and use of other biomarkers such as gene marker and combined index are necessary to better identify patients who will benefit from PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint blockade therapy. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Ten-Eleven Translocation-2 (TET2) inactivation through loss-of-function mutation, deletion and IDH1/2 (Isocitrate Dehydrogenase 1 and 2) gene mutation is a common event in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: TET2 gene mutations similar to those observed in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies also accumulate with age in otherwise healthy subjects with clonal hematopoiesis. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: TET2 is one of the three proteins of the TET (Ten-Eleven Translocation) family, which are evolutionarily conserved dioxygenases that catalyze the conversion of 5-methyl-cytosine (5-mC) to 5-hydroxymethyl-cytosine (5-hmC) and promote DNA demethylation. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: TET dioxygenases require 2-oxoglutarate, oxygen and Fe(II) for their activity, which is enhanced in the presence of ascorbic acid. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: TET2 is the most expressed TET gene in the hematopoietic tissue, especially in hematopoietic stem cells. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: In addition to their hydroxylase activity, TET proteins recruit the O-linked β-D-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT) enzyme to chromatin, which promotes post-transcriptional modifications of histones and facilitates gene expression. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: The TET2 level is regulated by interaction with IDAX, originating from TET2 gene fission during evolution, and by the microRNA miR-22. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: TET2 has pleiotropic roles during hematopoiesis, including stem-cell self-renewal, lineage commitment and terminal differentiation of monocytes. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Analysis of Tet2 knockout mice, which are viable and fertile, demonstrated that Tet2 functions as a tumor suppressor whose haploinsufficiency initiates myeloid and lymphoid transformations. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: This review summarizes the recently identified TET2 physiological and pathological functions and discusses how this knowledge influences our therapeutic approaches in hematological malignancies and possibly other tumor types. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Epigenetic modifiers have fundamental roles in defining unique cellular identity through the establishment and maintenance of lineage-specific chromatin and methylation status. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Several DNA modifications such as 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) are catalysed by the ten eleven translocation (Tet) methylcytosine dioxygenase family members, and the roles of Tet proteins in regulating chromatin architecture and gene transcription independently of DNA methylation have been gradually uncovered. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: However, the regulation of immunity and inflammation by Tet proteins independent of their role in modulating DNA methylation remains largely unknown. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Here we show that Tet2 selectively mediates active repression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) transcription during inflammation resolution in innate myeloid cells, including dendritic cells and macrophages. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Loss of Tet2 resulted in the upregulation of several inflammatory mediators, including IL-6, at late phase during the response to lipopolysaccharide challenge. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Tet2-deficient mice were more susceptible to endotoxin shock and dextran-sulfate-sodium-induced colitis, displaying a more severe inflammatory phenotype and increased IL-6 production compared to wild-type mice. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: IκBζ, an IL-6-specific transcription factor, mediated specific targeting of Tet2 to the Il6 promoter, further indicating opposite regulatory roles of IκBζ at initial and resolution phases of inflammation. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: For the repression mechanism, independent of DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation, Tet2 recruited Hdac2 and repressed transcription of Il6 via histone deacetylation. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: We provide mechanistic evidence for the gene-specific transcription repression activity of Tet2 via histone deacetylation and for the prevention of constant transcription activation at the chromatin level for resolving inflammation. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Frailty has long been considered synonymous with disability and comorbidity, to be highly prevalent in old age and to confer a high risk for falls, hospitalization and mortality. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: However, it is becoming recognized that frailty may be a distinct clinical syndrome with a biological basis. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: The frailty process appears to be a transitional state in the dynamic progression from robustness to functional decline. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: During this process, total physiological reserves decrease and become less likely to be sufficient for the maintenance and repair of the ageing body. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Central to the clinical concept of frailty is that no single altered system alone defines it, but that multiple systems are involved. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Clinical consensus regarding the phenotype which constitutes frailty, drawing upon the opinions of numerous authors, shows the characteristics to include wasting (loss of both muscle mass and strength and weight loss), loss of endurance, decreased balance and mobility, slowed performance, relative inactivity and, potentially, decreased cognitive function. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Frailty is a distinct entity easily recognized by clinicians, with multiple manifestations and with no single symptom being sufficient or essential in its presentation. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Manifestations include appearance (consistent or not with age), nutritional status (thin, weight loss), subjective health rating (health perception), performance (cognition, fatigue), sensory/physical impairments (vision, hearing, strength) and current care (medication, hospital). Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Although the early stages of the frailty process may be clinically silent, when depleted reserves reach an aggregate threshold leading to serious vulnerability, the syndrome may become detectable by looking at clinical, functional, behavioral and biological markers. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: Thus, a better understanding of these clinical changes and their underlying mechanisms, beginning in the pre-frail state, may confirm the impression held by many geriatricians that increasing frailty is distinguishable from ageing and in consequence is potentially reversible. Relevant:
Query: The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. Document: We therefore provide an update of the physiopathology and clinical and biological characteristics of the frailty process and speculate on possible preventative approaches. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: The clinical course and eventual outcome, or prognosis, of complex diseases varies enormously between affected individuals. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: This variability critically determines the impact a disease has on a patient's life but is very poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Here, we exploit existing genome-wide association study data to gain insight into the role of genetics in prognosis. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: We identify a noncoding polymorphism in FOXO3A (rs12212067: T > G) at which the minor (G) allele, despite not being associated with disease susceptibility, is associated with a milder course of Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis and with increased risk of severe malaria. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Minor allele carriage is shown to limit inflammatory responses in monocytes via a FOXO3-driven pathway, which through TGFβ1 reduces production of proinflammatory cytokines, including TNFα, and increases production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-10. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Thus, we uncover a shared genetic contribution to prognosis in distinct diseases that operates via a FOXO3-driven pathway modulating inflammatory responses. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: OBJECTIVE To evaluate the association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphisms (E2, C/T Arg158Cys; E4, T/C Cys112Arg; and promoter, g-219t) and the history of concussion in college athletes. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: We hypothesized that carrying 1 or more APOE rare (or minor) allele assessed in this study would be associated with having a history of 1 or more concussions. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: DESIGN Multicenter cross-sectional study. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: SETTING University athletic facilities. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: PARTICIPANTS One hundred ninety-six male football (n = 163) and female soccer (n = 33) college athletes volunteered. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: INTERVENTIONS Written concussion history questionnaire and saliva samples for genotyping. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Self-reported history of a documented concussion and rare APOE genotype (E2, E4, promoter). Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: RESULTS There was a significant association (Wald χ² = 3.82; P = 0.05; odds ratio = 9.8) between carrying all APOE rare alleles and the history of a previous concussion. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: There was also a significant association (Wald χ² = 3.96, P = 0.04, odds ratio = 8.4) between carrying the APOE promoter minor allele and experiencing 2 or more concussions. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: CONCLUSIONS Carriers of all 3 APOE rare (or minor) alleles assessed in this study were nearly 10 times more likely to report a previous concussion and may be at a greater risk of concussion versus noncarriers. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Promoter minor allele carriers were 8.4 times more likely to report multiple concussions and may be at a greater risk of multiple concussions versus noncarriers. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Research involving larger samples of individuals with multiple concussions and carriers of multiple APOE rare alleles is warranted. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Genome-wide association studies of the related chronic inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) known as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis have shown strong evidence of association to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: This region encodes a large number of immunological candidates, including the antigen-presenting classical human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Studies in IBD have indicated that multiple independent associations exist at HLA and non-HLA genes, but they have lacked the statistical power to define the architecture of association and causal alleles. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: To address this, we performed high-density SNP typing of the MHC in >32,000 individuals with IBD, implicating multiple HLA alleles, with a primary role for HLA-DRB1*01:03 in both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Relevant:
Query: The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. Document: Noteworthy differences were observed between these diseases, including a predominant role for class II HLA variants and heterozygous advantage observed in ulcerative colitis, suggesting an important role of the adaptive immune response in the colonic environment in the pathogenesis of IBD. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: The functional heart is comprised of distinct mesoderm-derived lineages including cardiomyocytes, endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Studies in the mouse embryo and the mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation model have provided evidence indicating that these three lineages develop from a common Flk-1+ (kinase insert domain protein receptor, also known as Kdr) cardiovascular progenitor that represents one of the earliest stages in mesoderm specification to the cardiovascular lineages. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: To determine whether a comparable progenitor is present during human cardiogenesis, we analysed the development of the cardiovascular lineages in human embryonic stem cell differentiation cultures. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Here we show that after induction with combinations of activin A, bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF, also known as FGF2), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, also known as VEGFA) and dickkopf homolog 1 (DKK1) in serum-free media, human embryonic-stem-cell-derived embryoid bodies generate a KDRlow/C-KIT(CD117)neg population that displays cardiac, endothelial and vascular smooth muscle potential in vitro and, after transplantation, in vivo. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: When plated in monolayer cultures, these KDRlow/C-KITneg cells differentiate to generate populations consisting of greater than 50% contracting cardiomyocytes. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Populations derived from the KDRlow/C-KITneg fraction give rise to colonies that contain all three lineages when plated in methylcellulose cultures. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Results from limiting dilution studies and cell-mixing experiments support the interpretation that these colonies are clones, indicating that they develop from a cardiovascular colony-forming cell. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Together, these findings identify a human cardiovascular progenitor that defines one of the earliest stages of human cardiac development. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: The fate of cells in the epiblast at prestreak and early primitive streak stages has been studied by injecting horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into single cells in situ of 6.7-day mouse embryos and identifying the labelled descendants at midstreak to neural plate stages after one day of culture. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Ectoderm was composed of descendants of epiblast progenitors that had been located in the embryonic axis anterior to the primitive streak. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Embryonic mesoderm was derived from all areas of the epiblast except the distal tip and the adjacent region anterior to it: the most anterior mesoderm cells originated posteriorly, traversing the primitive streak early; labelled cells in the posterior part of the streak at the neural plate stage were derived from extreme anterior axial and paraxial epiblast progenitors; head process cells were derived from epiblast at or near the anterior end of the primitive streak. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Endoderm descendants were most frequently derived from a region that included, but extended beyond, the region producing the head process: descendants of epiblast were present in endoderm by the midstreak stage, as well as at later stages. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Yolk sac and amnion mesoderm developed from posterolateral and posterior epiblast. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: The resulting fate map is essentially the same as those of the chick and urodele and indicates that, despite geometrical differences, topological fate relationships are conserved among these vertebrates. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Clonal descendants were not necessarily confined to a single germ layer or to extraembryonic mesoderm, indicating that these lineages are not separated at the beginning of gastrulation. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: The embryonic axis lengthened up to the neural plate stage by (1) elongation of the primitive streak through progressive incorporation of the expanding lateral and initially more anterior regions of epiblast and, (2) expansion of the region of epiblast immediately cranial to the anterior end of the primitive streak. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: The population doubling time of labelled cells was 7.5 h; a calculated 43% were in, or had completed, a 4th cell cycle, and no statistically significant regional differences in the number of descendants were found. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: This clonal analysis also showed that (1) growth in the epiblast was noncoherent and in most regions anisotropic and directed towards the primitive streak and (2) the midline did not act as a barrier to clonal spread, either in the epiblast in the anterior half of the axis or in the primitive streak. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: These results taken together with the fate map indicate that, while individual cells in the epiblast sheet behave independently with respect to their neighbours, morphogenetic movement during germ layer formation is coordinated in the population as a whole. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: RATIONALE Islet1 (Isl1) has been proposed as a marker of cardiac progenitor cells derived from the second heart field and is utilized to identify and purify cardiac progenitors from murine and human specimens for ex vivo expansion. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: The use of Isl1 as a specific second heart field marker is dependent on its exclusion from other cardiac lineages such as neural crest. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: OBJECTIVE Determine whether Isl1 is expressed by cardiac neural crest. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS We used an intersectional fate-mapping system using the RC::FrePe allele, which reports dual Flpe and Cre recombination. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: Combining Isl1(Cre/+), a SHF driver, and Wnt1::Flpe, a neural crest driver, with Rc::FrePe reveals that some Isl1 derivatives in the cardiac outflow tract derive from Wnt1-expressing neural crest progenitors. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: In contrast, no overlap was observed between Wnt1-derived neural crest and an alternative second heart field driver, Mef2c-AHF-Cre. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: CONCLUSIONS Isl1 is not restricted to second heart field progenitors in the developing heart but also labels cardiac neural crest. Relevant:
Query: The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. Document: The intersection of Isl1 and Wnt1 lineages within the heart provides a caveat to using Isl1 as an exclusive second heart field cardiac progenitor marker and suggests that some Isl1-expressing progenitor cells derived from embryos, embryonic stem cultures, or induced pluripotent stem cultures may be of neural crest lineage. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: This paper provides an update to the 1998 WHO/UNICEF report on complementary feeding. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: New research findings are generally consistent with the guidelines in that report, but the adoption of new energy and micronutrient requirements for infants and young children will result in lower recommendations regarding minimum meal frequency and energy density of complementary foods, and will alter the list of "problem nutrients. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: " Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Without fortification, the densities of iron, zinc, and vitamin B6 in complementary foods are often inadequate, and the intake of other nutrients may also be low in some populations. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Strategies for obtaining the needed amounts of problem nutrients, as well as optimizing breastmilk intake when other foods are added to the diet, are discussed. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: The impact of complementary feeding interventions on child growth has been variable, which calls attention to the need for more comprehensive programs. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: A six-step approach to planning, implementing, and evaluating such programs is recommended. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: BACKGROUND The growing appreciation of the multi-faceted importance of optimal maternal nutrition to the health and development of the infant and young child is tempered by incompletely resolved strategies for combatting challenges. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: OBJECTIVE To review the importance of maternal nutrition and strategies being employed to optimize outcomes. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: METHODS Selected data from recent literature with special focus on rationale for and currently published results of maternal nutrition supplements, including lipid based nutrition supplements. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: RESULTS 1) An impelling rationale for improving the maternal and in utero environment of low resource populations has emerged to achieve improved fetal and post-natal growth and development. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: 2) Based partly on population increases in adult height over one-two generations, much can be achieved by reducing poverty. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: 3) Maternal, newborn and infant characteristics associated with low resource environments include evidence of undernutrition, manifested by underweight and impaired linear growth. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: 4) Apart from broad public health and educational initiatives, to date, most specific efforts to improve fetal growth and development have included maternal nutrition interventions during gestation. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: 5) The relatively limited but real benefits of both iron/folic acid (IFA) and multiple micronutrient (MMN) maternal supplements during gestation have now been reasonably defined. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: 6) Recent investigations of a maternal lipid-based primarily micronutrient supplement (LNS) have not demonstrated a consistent benefit beyond MMN alone. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: 7) However, effects of both MMN and LNS appear to be enhanced by commencing early in gestation. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: CONCLUSIONS Poor maternal nutritional status is one of a very few specific factors in the human that not only contributes to impaired fetal and early post-natal growth but for which maternal interventions have demonstrated improved in utero development, documented primarily by both improvements in low birth weights and by partial corrections of impaired birth length. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: A clearer definition of the benefits achievable by interventions specifically focused on correcting maternal nutrition deficits should not be limited to improvements in the quality of maternal nutrition supplements, but on the cumulative quantity and timing of interventions (also recognizing the heterogeneity between populations). Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Finally, in an ideal world these steps are only a prelude to improvements in the total environment in which optimal nutrition and other health determinants can be achieved. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Maternal undernutrition contributes to 800,000 neonatal deaths annually through small for gestational age births; stunting, wasting, and micronutrient deficiencies are estimated to underlie nearly 3·1 million child deaths annually. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Progress has been made with many interventions implemented at scale and the evidence for effectiveness of nutrition interventions and delivery strategies has grown since The Lancet Series on Maternal and Child Undernutrition in 2008. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: We did a comprehensive update of interventions to address undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies in women and children and used standard methods to assess emerging new evidence for delivery platforms. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: We modelled the effect on lives saved and cost of these interventions in the 34 countries that have 90% of the world's children with stunted growth. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: We also examined the effect of various delivery platforms and delivery options using community health workers to engage poor populations and promote behaviour change, access and uptake of interventions. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Our analysis suggests the current total of deaths in children younger than 5 years can be reduced by 15% if populations can access ten evidence-based nutrition interventions at 90% coverage. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Additionally, access to and uptake of iodised salt can alleviate iodine deficiency and improve health outcomes. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Accelerated gains are possible and about a fifth of the existing burden of stunting can be averted using these approaches, if access is improved in this way. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: The estimated total additional annual cost involved for scaling up access to these ten direct nutrition interventions in the 34 focus countries is Int$9·6 billion per year. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: Continued investments in nutrition-specific interventions to avert maternal and child undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies through community engagement and delivery strategies that can reach poor segments of the population at greatest risk can make a great difference. Relevant:
Query: The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. Document: If this improved access is linked to nutrition-sensitive approaches--ie, women's empowerment, agriculture, food systems, education, employment, social protection, and safety nets--they can greatly accelerate progress in countries with the highest burden of maternal and child undernutrition and mortality. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: CONTEXT The growth inhibitory effect of tamoxifen, which is used for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer, is mediated by its metabolites, 4-hydroxytamoxifen and endoxifen. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: The formation of active metabolites is catalyzed by the polymorphic cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) enzyme. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether CYP2D6 variation is associated with clinical outcomes in women receiving adjuvant tamoxifen. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Retrospective analysis of German and US cohorts of patients treated with adjuvant tamoxifen for early stage breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: The 1325 patients had diagnoses between 1986 and 2005 of stage I through III breast cancer and were mainly postmenopausal (95.4%). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Last follow-up was in December 2008; inclusion criteria were hormone receptor positivity, no metastatic disease at diagnosis, adjuvant tamoxifen therapy, and no chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: DNA from tumor tissue or blood was genotyped for CYP2D6 variants associated with reduced (*10, *41) or absent (*3, *4, *5) enzyme activity. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Women were classified as having an extensive (n=609), heterozygous extensive/intermediate (n=637), or poor (n=79) CYP2D6 metabolism. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Time to recurrence, event-free survival, disease-free survival, and overall survival. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: RESULTS Median follow-up was 6.3 years. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: At 9 years of follow-up, the recurrence rates were 14.9% for extensive metabolizers, 20.9% for heterozygous extensive/intermediate metabolizers, and 29.0% for poor metabolizers, and all-cause mortality rates were 16.7%, 18.0%, and 22.8%, respectively. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Compared with extensive metabolizers, there was a significantly increased risk of recurrence for heterozygous extensive/intermediate metabolizers (time to recurrence adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 1.40; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.04-1.90) and for poor metabolizers (time to recurrence HR, 1.90; 95% CI, 1.10-3.28). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Compared with extensive metabolizers, those with decreased CYP2D6 activity (heterozygous extensive/intermediate and poor metabolism) had worse event-free survival (HR, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.06-1.68) and disease-free survival (HR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.03-1.61), but there was no significant difference in overall survival (HR, 1.15; 95% CI, 0.88-1.51). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: CONCLUSION Among women with breast cancer treated with tamoxifen, there was an association between CYP2D6 variation and clinical outcomes, such that the presence of 2 functional CYP2D6 alleles was associated with better clinical outcomes and the presence of nonfunctional or reduced-function alleles with worse outcomes. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: BACKGROUND Estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer tumors depend on estrogen signaling for their growth and replication and can be treated by anti-estrogen therapy with tamoxifen. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Polymorphisms of the CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 genes are associated with an impaired response to tamoxifen. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: The study objective was to investigate the impact of genetic polymorphisms in CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 on the pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen and its metabolites in Spanish women with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer who were candidates for tamoxifen therapy. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: METHODS We studied 90 women with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, using the AmpliChip CYP450 test to determine CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 gene variants. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Plasma levels of tamoxifen and its metabolites were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: RESULTS The CYP2D6 phenotype was extensive metabolizer in 80%, intermediate metabolizer in 12.2%, ultra-rapid metabolizer in 2.2%, and poor metabolizer in 5.6% of patients, and the allele frequency was 35.0% for allele (*)1, 21.0% for *2, and 18.9% for *4. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: All poor metabolizers in this series were *4/*4, and their endoxifen and 4-hydroxy tamoxifen levels were 25% lower than those of extensive metabolizers. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: CYP2C19*2 allele, which has been related to breast cancer outcomes, was detected in 15.6% of the studied alleles. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: CONCLUSION CYP2D6*4/*4 genotype was inversely associated with 4-hydroxy tamoxifen and endoxifen levels. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: According to these results, CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 genotyping appears advisable before the prescription of tamoxifen therapy. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: BACKGROUND For women with oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive early breast cancer, treatment with tamoxifen for 5 years substantially reduces the breast cancer mortality rate throughout the first 15 years after diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: We aimed to assess the further effects of continuing tamoxifen to 10 years instead of stopping at 5 years. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: METHODS In the worldwide Adjuvant Tamoxifen: Longer Against Shorter (ATLAS) trial, 12,894 women with early breast cancer who had completed 5 years of treatment with tamoxifen were randomly allocated to continue tamoxifen to 10 years or stop at 5 years (open control). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Allocation (1:1) was by central computer, using minimisation. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: After entry (between 1996 and 2005), yearly follow-up forms recorded any recurrence, second cancer, hospital admission, or death. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: We report effects on breast cancer outcomes among the 6846 women with ER-positive disease, and side-effects among all women (with positive, negative, or unknown ER status). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Long-term follow-up still continues. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: This study is registered, number ISRCTN19652633. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: FINDINGS Among women with ER-positive disease, allocation to continue tamoxifen reduced the risk of breast cancer recurrence (617 recurrences in 3428 women allocated to continue vs 711 in 3418 controls, p=0·002), reduced breast cancer mortality (331 deaths vs 397 deaths, p=0·01), and reduced overall mortality (639 deaths vs 722 deaths, p=0·01). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: The reductions in adverse breast cancer outcomes appeared to be less extreme before than after year 10 (recurrence rate ratio [RR] 0·90 [95% CI 0·79–1·02] during years 5–9 and 0·75 [0·62–0·90] in later years; breast cancer mortality RR 0·97 [0·79–1·18] during years 5–9 and 0·71 [0·58–0·88] in later years). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: The cumulative risk of recurrence during years 5–14 was 21·4% for women allocated to continue versus 25·1% for controls; breast cancer mortality during years 5–14 was 12·2% for women allocated to continue versus 15·0% for controls (absolute mortality reduction 2·8%). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Treatment allocation seemed to have no effect on breast cancer outcome among 1248 women with ER-negative disease, and an intermediate effect among 4800 women with unknown ER status. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: Among all 12,894 women, mortality without recurrence from causes other than breast cancer was little affected (691 deaths without recurrence in 6454 women allocated to continue versus 679 deaths in 6440 controls; RR 0·99 [0·89–1·10]; p=0·84). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: For the incidence (hospitalisation or death) rates of specific diseases, RRs were as follows: pulmonary embolus 1·87 (95% CI 1·13–3·07, p=0·01 [including 0·2% mortality in both treatment groups]), stroke 1·06 (0·83–1·36), ischaemic heart disease 0·76 (0·60–0·95, p=0·02), and endometrial cancer 1·74 (1·30–2·34, p=0·0002). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: The cumulative risk of endometrial cancer during years 5–14 was 3·1% (mortality 0·4%) for women allocated to continue versus 1·6% (mortality 0·2%) for controls (absolute mortality increase 0·2%). Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: INTERPRETATION For women with ER-positive disease, continuing tamoxifen to 10 years rather than stopping at 5 years produces a further reduction in recurrence and mortality, particularly after year 10. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: These results, taken together with results from previous trials of 5 years of tamoxifen treatment versus none, suggest that 10 years of tamoxifen treatment can approximately halve breast cancer mortality during the second decade after diagnosis. Relevant:
Query: The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. Document: FUNDING Cancer Research UK, UK Medical Research Council, AstraZeneca UK, US Army, EU-Biomed. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: The RNA-guided DNA endonuclease Cas9 is a powerful tool for genome editing. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Little is known about the kinetics and fidelity of the double-strand break (DSB) repair process that follows a Cas9 cutting event in living cells. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Here, we developed a strategy to measure the kinetics of DSB repair for single loci in human cells. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Quantitative modeling of repaired DNA in time series after Cas9 activation reveals variable and often slow repair rates, with half-life times up to ∼10 hr. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Furthermore, repair of the DSBs tends to be error prone. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Both classical and microhomology-mediated end joining pathways contribute to the erroneous repair. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Estimation of their individual rate constants indicates that the balance between these two pathways changes over time and can be altered by additional ionizing radiation. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Our approach provides quantitative insights into DSB repair kinetics and fidelity in single loci and indicates that Cas9-induced DSBs are repaired in an unusual manner. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) comprise a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis, with an increased propensity to develop acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: The molecular basis for MDS progression is unknown, but a key element in MDS disease progression is loss of chromosomal material (genomic instability). Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Using our two-step mouse model for myeloid leukemic disease progression involving overexpression of human mutant NRAS and BCL2 genes, we show that there is a stepwise increase in the frequency of DNA damage leading to an increased frequency of error-prone repair of double-strand breaks (DSB) by nonhomologous end-joining. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: There is a concomitant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) in these transgenic mice with disease progression. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Importantly, RAC1, an essential component of the ROS-producing NADPH oxidase, is downstream of RAS, and we show that ROS production in NRAS/BCL2 mice is in part dependent on RAC1 activity. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: DNA damage and error-prone repair can be decreased or reversed in vivo by N-acetyl cysteine antioxidant treatment. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Our data link gene abnormalities to constitutive DNA damage and increased DSB repair errors in vivo and provide a mechanism for an increase in the error rate of DNA repair with MDS disease progression. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: These data suggest treatment strategies that target RAS/RAC pathways and ROS production in human MDS/AML. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: DNA replication forks that collapse during the process of genomic duplication lead to double-strand breaks and constitute a threat to genomic stability. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: The risk of fork collapse is higher in the presence of replication inhibitors or after UV irradiation, which introduces specific modifications in the structure of DNA. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: In these cases, fork progression may be facilitated by error-prone translesion synthesis (TLS) DNA polymerases. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Alternatively, the replisome may skip the damaged DNA, leaving an unreplicated gap to be repaired after replication. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: This mechanism strictly requires a priming event downstream of the lesion. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: Here we show that PrimPol, a new human primase and TLS polymerase, uses its primase activity to mediate uninterrupted fork progression after UV irradiation and to reinitiate DNA synthesis after dNTP depletion. Relevant:
Query: The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. Document: As an enzyme involved in tolerance to DNA damage, PrimPol might become a target for cancer therapy. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: CONTEXT During pregnancy, serum levels of estrogen, progesterone, and other hormones are markedly higher than during other periods of life. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Pregnancy hormones primarily are produced in the placenta, and signs of placental impairment may serve as indirect markers of hormone exposures during pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: During pregnancy, these markers have been inconsistently associated with subsequent risk of breast cancer in the mother. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine associations between indirect markers of hormonal exposures, such as placental weight and other pregnancy characteristics, and maternal risk of developing breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: DESIGN AND SETTING Population-based cohort study using data from the Swedish Birth Register, the Swedish Cancer Register, the Swedish Cause of Death Register, and the Swedish Register of Population and Population Changes. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: PARTICIPANTS Women included in the Sweden Birth Register who delivered singletons between 1982 and 1989, with complete information on date of birth and gestational age. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Women were followed up until the occurrence of breast cancer, death, or end of follow-up (December 31, 2001). Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate associations between hormone exposures and risks of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Incidence of invasive breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: RESULTS Of 314,019 women in the cohort, 2216 (0.7%) developed breast cancer during the follow-up through 2001, of whom 2100 (95%) were diagnosed before age 50 years. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Compared with women who had placentas weighing less than 500 g in 2 consecutive pregnancies, the risk of breast cancer was increased among women whose placentas weighed between 500 and 699 g in their first pregnancy and at least 700 g in their second pregnancy (or vice versa) (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.82; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.07-3.08), and the corresponding risk was doubled among women whose placentas weighed at least 700 g in both pregnancies (adjusted hazard ratio, 2.05; 95% CI, 1.15-3.64). Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: A high birth weight (> or =4000 g) in 2 successive births was associated with an increased risk of breast cancer before but not after adjusting for placental weight and other covariates (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.76-1.59). Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: CONCLUSIONS Placental weight is positively associated with maternal risk of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: These results further support the hypothesis that pregnancy hormones are important modifiers of subsequent maternal breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Ages at menarche and first birth are established risk factors for breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: The interval between these ages may also affect risk, since the breast is more susceptible to carcinogenic insults during this period than during the parous period. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: However, few investigators have studied this relation. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Using logistic regression, the authors evaluated associations between the timing of reproductive events and breast cancer risk among 4,013 cases and 4,069 controls enrolled in a multicenter, population-based US case-control study of White and African-American women (1994-1998). Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: For White, parous premenopausal and postmenopausal women, those who had an interval of > or =16 years between the ages of menarche and first birth had 1.5-fold (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.0, 2.2) and 1.4-fold (95% CI: 1.1, 1.8) increased risks of breast cancer, respectively, in comparison with those who had < or =5 years between these ages. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Adjusting for age at first birth altered these risk estimates somewhat, to odds ratios of 1.5 (95% CI: 0.8, 2.9) and 1.0 (95% CI: 0.6, 1.5), respectively. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: These associations were stronger for lobular and hormone-receptor-positive tumors but were absent among premenopausal African-American women. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: The authors conclude that the interval between age at menarche and age at first birth is associated with the risk of hormonally sensitive types of breast cancer, particularly among White women. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: The association between anthropometric indices and the risk of breast cancer was analyzed using pooled data from seven prospective cohort studies. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Together, these cohorts comprise 337,819 women and 4,385 incident invasive breast cancer cases. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: In multivariate analyses controlling for reproductive, dietary, and other risk factors, the pooled relative risk (RR) of breast cancer per height increment of 5 cm was 1.02 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.96, 1.10) in premenopausal women and 1.07 (95% CI: 1.03, 1.12) in postmenopausal women. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Body mass index (BMI) showed significant inverse and positive associations with breast cancer among pre- and postmenopausal women, respectively; these associations were nonlinear. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Compared with premenopausal women with a BMI of less than 21 kg/m2, women with a BMI exceeding 31 kg/m2 had an RR of 0.54 (95% CI: 0.34, 0.85). Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: In postmenopausal women, the RRs did not increase further when BMI exceeded 28 kg/m2; the RR for these women was 1.26 (95% CI: 1.09, 1.46). Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: The authors found little evidence for interaction with other breast cancer risk factors. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Their data indicate that height is an independent risk factor for postmenopausal breast cancer; in premenopausal women, this relation is less clear. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: The association between BMI and breast cancer varies by menopausal status. Relevant:
Query: The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. Document: Weight control may reduce the risk among postmenopausal women. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: BACKGROUND Self-harm and suicide are common in prisoners, yet robust information on the full extent and characteristics of people at risk of self-harm is scant. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Furthermore, understanding how frequently self-harm is followed by suicide, and in which prisoners this progression is most likely to happen, is important. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: We did a case-control study of all prisoners in England and Wales to ascertain the prevalence of self-harm in this population, associated risk factors, clustering effects, and risk of subsequent suicide after self-harm. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: METHODS Records of self-harm incidents in all prisons in England and Wales were gathered routinely between January, 2004, and December, 2009. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: We did a case-control comparison of prisoners who self-harmed and those who did not between January, 2006, and December, 2009. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: We also used a Bayesian approach to look at clustering of people who self-harmed. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Prisoners who self-harmed and subsequently died by suicide in prison were compared with other inmates who self-harmed. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: FINDINGS 139,195 self-harm incidents were recorded in 26,510 individual prisoners between 2004 and 2009; 5-6% of male prisoners and 20-24% of female inmates self-harmed every year. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Self-harm rates were more than ten times higher in female prisoners than in male inmates. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Repetition of self-harm was common, particularly in women and teenage girls, in whom a subgroup of 102 prisoners accounted for 17,307 episodes. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: In both sexes, self-harm was associated with younger age, white ethnic origin, prison type, and a life sentence or being unsentenced; in female inmates, committing a violent offence against an individual was also a factor. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Substantial evidence was noted of clustering in time and location of prisoners who self-harmed (adjusted intra-class correlation 0·15, 95% CI 0·11-0·18). Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: 109 subsequent suicides in prison were reported in individuals who self-harmed; the risk was higher in those who self-harmed than in the general prison population, and more than half the deaths occurred within a month of self-harm. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Risk factors for suicide after self-harm in male prisoners were older age and a previous self-harm incident of high or moderate lethality; in female inmates, a history of more than five self-harm incidents within a year was associated with subsequent suicide. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: INTERPRETATION The burden of self-harm in prisoners is substantial, particularly in women. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Self-harm in prison is associated with subsequent suicide in this setting. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Prevention and treatment of self-harm in prisoners is an essential component of suicide prevention in prisons. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: FUNDING Wellcome Trust, National Institute for Health Research, National Offender Management Service, and Department of Health. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: BACKGROUND Self-reported health status in underserved population of prisoners has not been extensively explored. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: The purposes of this cross-sectional study were to assess self-reported health, quality of life, and access to health services in a sample of male prisoners of Italy. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: METHODS A total of 908 prisoners received a self-administered anonymous questionnaire pertaining on demographic and detention characteristics, self-reported health status and quality of life, access to health services, lifestyles, and participation to preventive, social, and rehabilitation programs. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: A total of 650 prisoners agreed to participate in the study and returned the questionnaire. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: RESULTS Respectively, 31.6% and 43.5% of prisoners reported a poor perceived health status and a poor quality of life, and 60% admitted that their health was worsened or greatly worsened during the prison stay. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Older age, lower education, psychiatric disorders, self-reported health problems on prison entry, and suicide attempts within prison were significantly associated with a perceived worse health status. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: At the time of the questionnaire delivery, 30% of the prisoners self-reported a health problem present on prison entry and 82% present at the time of the survey. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Most frequently reported health problems included dental health problems, arthritis or joint pain, eye problems, gastrointestinal diseases, emotional problems, and high blood pressure. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: On average, prisoners encountered general practitioners six times during the previous year, and the frequency of medical encounters was significantly associated with older age, sentenced prisoners, psychiatric disorders, and self-reported health problems on prison entry. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: CONCLUSIONS The findings suggest that prisoners have a perceived poor health status, specific care needs and health promotion programs are seldom offered. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Programs for correction of risk behaviour and prevention of long-term effects of incarceration on prisoners' health are strongly needed. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: The prison population is increasing and the health problems of prisoners are considerable. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Prison is designed with punishment, correction and rehabilitation to the community in mind and these goals may conflict with the aims of health care. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: A literature review showed that the main issues in prison health care are mental health, substance abuse and communicable diseases. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Women prisoners and older prisoners have needs which are distinct from other prisoners. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: Health promotion and the health of the community outside prisons are desirable aims of prison health care. Relevant:
Query: The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. Document: The delivery of effective health care to prisoners is dependent upon partnership between health and prison services and telemedicine is one possible mode of delivery. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: BACKGROUND The prognosis and treatment of the 2 main types of cardiac amyloidosis, immunoglobulin light chain (AL) and transthyretin (ATTR) amyloidosis, are substantially influenced by cardiac involvement. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Cardiovascular magnetic resonance with late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) is a reference standard for the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis, but its potential for stratifying risk is unknown. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS Two hundred fifty prospectively recruited subjects, 122 patients with ATTR amyloid, 9 asymptomatic mutation carriers, and 119 patients with AL amyloidosis, underwent LGE cardiovascular magnetic resonance. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Subjects were followed up for a mean of 24±13 months. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: LGE was performed with phase-sensitive inversion recovery (PSIR) and without (magnitude only). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: These were compared with extracellular volume measured with T1 mapping. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: PSIR was superior to magnitude-only inversion recovery LGE because PSIR always nulled the tissue (blood or myocardium) with the longest T1 (least gadolinium). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: LGE was classified into 3 patterns: none, subendocardial, and transmural, which were associated with increasing amyloid burden as defined by extracellular volume (P<0.0001), with transitions from none to subendocardial LGE at an extracellular volume of 0.40 to 0.43 (AL) and 0.39 to 0.40 (ATTR) and to transmural at 0.48 to 0.55 (AL) and 0.47 to 0.59 (ATTR). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Sixty-seven patients (27%) died. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Transmural LGE predicted death (hazard ratio, 5.4; 95% confidence interval, 2.1-13.7; P<0.0001) and remained independent after adjustment for N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide, ejection fraction, stroke volume index, E/E', and left ventricular mass index (hazard ratio, 4.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.3-13.1; P<0.05). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: CONCLUSIONS There is a continuum of cardiac involvement in systemic AL and ATTR amyloidosis. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Transmural LGE is determined reliably by PSIR and represents advanced cardiac amyloidosis. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: The PSIR technique provides incremental information on outcome even after adjustment for known prognostic factors. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: BACKGROUND Fingolimod (FTY720) is a new oral immunomodulating agent under evaluation for the treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: METHODS We randomly assigned 281 patients to receive oral fingolimod, at a dose of 1.25 mg or 5.0 mg, or a placebo once daily, and we followed these patients for 6 months with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and clinical evaluations (core study, months 0 to 6). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: The primary end point was the total number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions recorded on T(1)-weighted MRI at monthly intervals for 6 months. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: In an extension study in which the investigators and patients remained unaware of the dose assignments (months 7 to 12), patients who received placebo underwent randomization again to one of the fingolimod doses. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: RESULTS A total of 255 patients completed the core study. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: The median total number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions on MRI was lower with 1.25 mg of fingolimod (1 lesion, P<0.001) and 5.0 mg of fingolimod (3 lesions, P=0.006) than with placebo (5 lesions). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: The annualized relapse rate was 0.77 in the placebo group, as compared with 0.35 in the group given 1.25 mg of fingolimod (P=0.009) and 0.36 in the group given 5.0 mg of fingolimod (P=0.01). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: For the 227 patients who completed the extension study, the number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions and relapse rates remained low in the groups that received continuous fingolimod, and both measures decreased in patients who switched from placebo to fingolimod. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Adverse events included nasopharyngitis, dyspnea, headache, diarrhea, and nausea. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Clinically asymptomatic elevations of alanine aminotransferase levels were more frequent with fingolimod (10 to 12%, vs. 1% in the placebo group). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: One case of the posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome occurred in the 5.0-mg group. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Fingolimod was also associated with an initial reduction in the heart rate and a modest decrease in the forced expiratory volume in 1 second. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this proof-of-concept study, fingolimod reduced the number of lesions detected on MRI and clinical disease activity in patients with multiple sclerosis. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Evaluation in larger, longer-term studies is warranted. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: (Clinicaltrials.gov numbers, NCT00333138 [core study] and NCT00235430 [ClinicalTrials.gov] [extension].). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: OBJECTIVES The aim of this study was to determine the accuracy of the contrast "bolus only" T1 mapping cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) technique for measuring myocardial extracellular volume fraction (ECV). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: BACKGROUND Myocardial ECV can be measured with T1 mapping before and after contrast agent if the contrast agent distribution between blood/myocardium is at equilibrium. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Equilibrium distribution can be achieved with a primed contrast infusion (equilibrium contrast-CMR [EQ-CMR]) or might be approximated by the dynamic equilibration achieved by delayed post-bolus measurement. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: This bolus only approach is highly attractive, but currently limited data support its use. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: We compared the bolus only technique with 2 independent standards: collagen volume fraction (CVF) from myocardial biopsy in aortic stenosis (AS); and the infusion technique in 5 representative conditions. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: METHODS One hundred forty-seven subjects were studied: healthy volunteers (n = 50); hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (n = 25); severe AS (n = 22); amyloid (n = 20); and chronic myocardial infarction (n = 30). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Bolus only (at 15 min) and infusion ECV measurements were performed and compared. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: In 18 subjects with severe AS the results were compared with histological CVF. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: RESULTS The ECV by both techniques correlated with histological CVF (n = 18, r² = 0.69, p < 0.01 vs. r² = 0.71, p < 0.01, p = 0.42 for comparison). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: Across health and disease, there was strong correlation between the techniques (r² = 0.97). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: However, in diseases of high ECV (amyloid, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy late gadolinium enhancement, and infarction), Bland-Altman analysis indicates the bolus only technique has a consistent and increasing offset, giving a higher value for ECVs above 0.4 (mean difference ± limit of agreement for ECV <0.4 = -0.004 ± 0.037 vs. ECV >0.4 = 0.040 ± 0.075, p < 0.001). Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: CONCLUSIONS Bolus only, T1 mapping-derived ECV measurement is sufficient for ECV measurement across a range of cardiac diseases, and this approach is histologically validated in AS. Relevant:
Query: The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. Document: However, when ECV is >0.4, the bolus only technique consistently measures ECV higher compared with infusion. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: PURPOSE To describe a naturally occurring X-linked recessive mutation, no b-wave (nob), that compromises visual transmission between photoreceptors and second-order neurons in mice. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: METHODS Affected mice were identified by recording the light-evoked response of the retina, the electroretinogram (ERG). Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: To evaluate visual transmission, cortical potentials were recorded with a scalp electrode. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: The inheritance pattern for nob was defined by breeding nob animals with normal mice. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: Retinal histologic analysis was performed by light microscopy. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: RESULTS Although the photoreceptor-mediated ERG component (a-wave) was normal in nob mice, the major response component reflecting postreceptoral neuronal activity (b-wave) was missing. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: Visually-driven cortical activity was also abnormal in nob animals. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: At the light microscopic level, the nob retina appeared to have a normal cytoarchitecture. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: CONCLUSIONS These findings suggest that the nob defect interferes with the transmission of visual information through the retina and that these mice are a useful model for the study of outer retinal synaptic function. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: In addition, this mutant mouse seems to provide an animal model for the complete form of congenital stationary night blindness, a human disorder in which patients have a profound loss of rod-mediated visual sensitivity. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: Astrocytes can release glutamate in a calcium-dependent manner and consequently signal to adjacent neurons. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: Whether this glutamate release pathway is used during physiological signaling or is recruited only under pathophysiological conditions is not well defined. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: One reason for this lack of understanding is the limited knowledge about the levels of calcium necessary to stimulate glutamate release from astrocytes and about how they compare with the range of physiological calcium levels in these cells. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: We used flash photolysis to raise internal calcium in astrocytes, while monitoring astrocytic calcium levels and glutamate, which evoked slow inward currents that were recorded electrophysiologically from single neurons grown on microislands of astrocytes. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: With this approach, we demonstrate that modest changes of astrocytic calcium, from 84 to 140 nM, evoke substantial glutamatergic currents in neighboring neurons (-391 pA), with a Hill coefficient of 2.1 to 2.7. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: Because the agonists glutamate, norepinephrine, and dopamine all raise calcium in astrocytes to levels exceeding 1.8 microM, these quantitative studies demonstrate that the astrocytic glutamate release pathway is engaged at physiological levels of internal calcium. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: Consequently, the calcium-dependent release of glutamate from astrocytes functions within an appropriate range of astrocytic calcium levels to be used as a signaling pathway within the functional nervous system. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: We compared conscious and nonconscious processing of briefly flashed words using a visual masking procedure while recording intracranial electroencephalogram (iEEG) in ten patients. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: Nonconscious processing of masked words was observed in multiple cortical areas, mostly within an early time window (<300 ms), accompanied by induced gamma-band activity, but without coherent long-distance neural activity, suggesting a quickly dissipating feedforward wave. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: In contrast, conscious processing of unmasked words was characterized by the convergence of four distinct neurophysiological markers: sustained voltage changes, particularly in prefrontal cortex, large increases in spectral power in the gamma band, increases in long-distance phase synchrony in the beta range, and increases in long-range Granger causality. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: We argue that all of those measures provide distinct windows into the same distributed state of conscious processing. Relevant:
Query: The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. Document: These results have a direct impact on current theoretical discussions concerning the neural correlates of conscious access. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Molecular motors play critical roles in the formation of mitotic spindles, either through controlling the stability of individual microtubules, or by crosslinking and sliding microtubule arrays. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Kinesin-8 motors are best known for their regulatory roles in controlling microtubule dynamics. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: They contain microtubule-destabilizing activities, and restrict spindle length in a wide variety of cell types and organisms. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Here, we report an antiparallel microtubule-sliding activity of the budding yeast kinesin-8, Kip3. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: The in vivo importance of this sliding activity was established through the identification of complementary Kip3 mutants that separate the sliding activity and microtubule-destabilizing activity. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: In conjunction with Cin8, a kinesin-5 family member, the sliding activity of Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly and the maintenance of genome stability. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: We propose a slide-disassemble model where the sliding and destabilizing activity of Kip3 balance during pre-anaphase. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: This facilitates normal spindle assembly. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: However, the destabilizing activity of Kip3 dominates in late anaphase, inhibiting spindle elongation and ultimately promoting spindle disassembly. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: BACKGROUND Production of the GTP-bound form of the Ran GTPase (RanGTP) around chromosomes induces spindle assembly by activating nuclear localization signal (NLS)-containing proteins. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Several NLS proteins have been identified as spindle assembly factors, but the complexity of the process led us to search for additional proteins with distinct roles in spindle assembly. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: RESULTS We identify a chromatin-remodeling ATPase, CHD4, as a RanGTP-dependent microtubule (MT)-associated protein (MAP). Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: MT binding occurs via the region containing an NLS and chromatin-binding domains. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: In Xenopus egg extracts and cultured cells, CHD4 largely dissociates from mitotic chromosomes and partially localizes to the spindle. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Immunodepletion of CHD4 from egg extracts significantly reduces the quantity of MTs produced around chromatin and prevents spindle assembly. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: CHD4 RNAi in both HeLa and Drosophila S2 cells induces defects in spindle assembly and chromosome alignment in early mitosis, leading to chromosome missegregation. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Further analysis in egg extracts and in HeLa cells reveals that CHD4 is a RanGTP-dependent MT stabilizer. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Moreover, the CHD4-containing NuRD complex promotes organization of MTs into bipolar spindles in egg extracts. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Importantly, this function of CHD4 is independent of chromatin remodeling. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: CONCLUSIONS Our results uncover a new role for CHD4 as a MAP required for MT stabilization and involved in generating spindle bipolarity. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: In many species, oocyte meiosis is carried out in the absence of centrioles. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: As a result, microtubule organization, spindle assembly, and chromosome segregation proceed by unique mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Here, we report insights into the principles underlying this specialized form of cell division, through studies of C. elegans KLP-15 and KLP-16, two highly homologous members of the kinesin-14 family of minus-end-directed kinesins. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: These proteins localize to the acentriolar oocyte spindle and promote microtubule bundling during spindle assembly; following KLP-15/16 depletion, microtubule bundles form but then collapse into a disorganized array. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Surprisingly, despite this defect we found that during anaphase, microtubules are able to reorganize into a bundled array that facilitates chromosome segregation. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: This phenotype therefore enabled us to identify factors promoting microtubule organization during anaphase, whose contributions are normally undetectable in wild-type worms; we found that SPD-1 (PRC1) bundles microtubules and KLP-18 (kinesin-12) likely sorts those bundles into a functional orientation capable of mediating chromosome segregation. Relevant:
Query: The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. Document: Therefore, our studies have revealed an interplay between distinct mechanisms that together promote spindle formation and chromosome segregation in the absence of structural cues such as centrioles. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Gram-negative bacteria use the Type VI secretion system (T6SS) to inject toxic proteins into rival bacteria or eukaryotic cells. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: However, the mechanism of the T6SS is incompletely understood. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: In the present study, we investigated a conserved component of the T6SS, TssK, using the antibacterial T6SS of Serratia marcescens as a model system. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: TssK was confirmed to be essential for effector secretion by the T6SS. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: The native protein, although not an integral membrane protein, appeared to localize to the inner membrane, consistent with its presence within a membrane-anchored assembly. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Recombinant TssK purified from S. marcescens was found to exist in several stable oligomeric forms, namely trimer, hexamer and higher-order species. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Native-level purification of TssK identified TssF and TssG as interacting proteins. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: TssF and TssG, conserved T6SS components of unknown function, were required for T6SS activity, but not for correct localization of TssK. A complex containing TssK, TssF and TssG was subsequently purified in vitro, confirming that these three proteins form a new subcomplex within the T6SS. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Our findings provide new insight into the T6SS assembly, allowing us to propose a model whereby TssK recruits TssFG into the membrane-associated T6SS complex and different oligomeric states of TssK may contribute to the dynamic mechanism of the system. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: The bacterial type VI secretion system (T6SS) is a large multicomponent, dynamic macromolecular machine that has an important role in the ecology of many Gram-negative bacteria. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: T6SS is responsible for translocation of a wide range of toxic effector molecules, allowing predatory cells to kill both prokaryotic as well as eukaryotic prey cells. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: The T6SS organelle is functionally analogous to contractile tails of bacteriophages and is thought to attack cells by initially penetrating them with a trimeric protein complex called the VgrG spike. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Neither the exact protein composition of the T6SS organelle nor the mechanisms of effector selection and delivery are known. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Here we report that proteins from the PAAR (proline-alanine-alanine-arginine) repeat superfamily form a sharp conical extension on the VgrG spike, which is further involved in attaching effector domains to the spike. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: The crystal structures of two PAAR-repeat proteins bound to VgrG-like partners show that these proteins sharpen the tip of the T6SS spike complex. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: We demonstrate that PAAR proteins are essential for T6SS-mediated secretion and target cell killing by Vibrio cholerae and Acinetobacter baylyi. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Our results indicate a new model of the T6SS organelle in which the VgrG-PAAR spike complex is decorated with multiple effectors that are delivered simultaneously into target cells in a single contraction-driven translocation event. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Type VI protein secretion system (T6SS) is important for bacterial competition through contact-dependent killing of competitors. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: T6SS delivers effectors to neighboring cells and corresponding antagonistic proteins confer immunity against effectors that are delivered by sister cells. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Although T6SS has been found in more than 100 gram-negative bacteria including many important human pathogens, few T6SS-dependent effector and immunity proteins have been experimentally determined. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Here we report a high-throughput approach using transposon mutagenesis and deep sequencing (Tn-seq) to identify T6SS immunity proteins in Vibrio cholerae. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Saturating transposon mutagenesis was performed in wild type and a T6SS null mutant. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: Genes encoding immunity proteins were predicted to be essential in the wild type but dispensable in the T6SS mutant. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: By comparing the relative abundance of each transposon mutant in the mutant library using deep sequencing, we identified three immunity proteins that render protection against killing by T6SS predatory cells. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: We also identified their three cognate T6SS-secreted effectors and show these are important for not only antibacterial and antieukaryotic activities but also assembly of T6SS apparatus. Relevant:
Query: The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. Document: The lipase and muramidase T6SS effectors identified in this study underscore the diversity of T6SS-secreted substrates and the distinctly different mechanisms that target these for secretion by the dynamic T6SS organelle. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: The programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor serves as an immunologic checkpoint, limiting bystander tissue damage and preventing the development of autoimmunity during inflammatory responses. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: PD-1 is expressed by activated T cells and downmodulates T-cell effector functions upon binding to its ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, on antigen-presenting cells. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: In patients with cancer, the expression of PD-1 on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and its interaction with the ligands on tumor and immune cells in the tumor microenvironment undermine antitumor immunity and support its rationale for PD-1 blockade in cancer immunotherapy. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: This report details the development and characterization of nivolumab, a fully human IgG4 (S228P) anti-PD-1 receptor-blocking monoclonal antibody. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Nivolumab binds to PD-1 with high affinity and specificity, and effectively inhibits the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: In vitro assays demonstrated the ability of nivolumab to potently enhance T-cell responses and cytokine production in the mixed lymphocyte reaction and superantigen or cytomegalovirus stimulation assays. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: No in vitro antibody-dependent cell-mediated or complement-dependent cytotoxicity was observed with the use of nivolumab and activated T cells as targets. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Nivolumab treatment did not induce adverse immune-related events when given to cynomolgus macaques at high concentrations, independent of circulating anti-nivolumab antibodies where observed. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: These data provide a comprehensive preclinical characterization of nivolumab, for which antitumor activity and safety have been demonstrated in human clinical trials in various solid tumors. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: BACKGROUND Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease in developed countries. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: We evaluated the renoprotective effects of dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system by adding treatment with aliskiren, an oral direct renin inhibitor, to treatment with the maximal recommended dose of losartan (100 mg daily) and optimal antihypertensive therapy in patients who had hypertension and type 2 diabetes with nephropathy. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: METHODS We enrolled 599 patients in this multinational, randomized, double-blind study. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: After a 3-month, open-label, run-in period during which patients received 100 mg of losartan daily, patients were randomly assigned to receive 6 months of treatment with aliskiren (150 mg daily for 3 months, followed by an increase in dosage to 300 mg daily for another 3 months) or placebo, in addition to losartan. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: The primary outcome was a reduction in the ratio of albumin to creatinine, as measured in an early-morning urine sample, at 6 months. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: RESULTS The baseline characteristics of the two groups were similar. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Treatment with 300 mg of aliskiren daily, as compared with placebo, reduced the mean urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio by 20% (95% confidence interval, 9 to 30; P<0.001), with a reduction of 50% or more in 24.7% of the patients who received aliskiren as compared with 12.5% of those who received placebo (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: A small difference in blood pressure was seen between the treatment groups by the end of the study period (systolic, 2 mm Hg lower [P=0.07] and diastolic, 1 mm Hg lower [P=0.08] in the aliskiren group). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: The total numbers of adverse and serious adverse events were similar in the groups. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: CONCLUSIONS Aliskiren may have renoprotective effects that are independent of its blood-pressure-lowering effect in patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and nephropathy who are receiving the recommended renoprotective treatment. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00097955 [ClinicalTrials.gov].). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Activation of self-reactive T cells and their trafficking to target tissues leads to autoimmune organ destruction. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Mice lacking the co-inhibitory receptor cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) develop fatal autoimmunity characterized by lymphocytic infiltration into nonlymphoid tissues. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Here, we demonstrate that the CD28 co-stimulatory pathway regulates the trafficking of self-reactive Ctla4(-/-) T cells to tissues. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Concurrent ablation of the CD28-activated Tec family kinase ITK does not block spontaneous T cell activation but instead causes self-reactive Ctla4(-/-) T cells to accumulate in secondary lymphoid organs. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Despite excessive spontaneous T cell activation and proliferation in lymphoid organs, Itk(-/-); Ctla4(-/-) mice are otherwise healthy, mount antiviral immune responses and exhibit a long lifespan. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: We propose that ITK specifically licenses autoreactive T cells to enter tissues to mount destructive immune responses. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. Document: Notably, ITK inhibitors mimic the null mutant phenotype and also prevent pancreatic islet infiltration by diabetogenic T cells in mouse models of type 1 diabetes, highlighting their potential utility for the treatment of human autoimmune disorders. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: The programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor serves as an immunologic checkpoint, limiting bystander tissue damage and preventing the development of autoimmunity during inflammatory responses. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: PD-1 is expressed by activated T cells and downmodulates T-cell effector functions upon binding to its ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, on antigen-presenting cells. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: In patients with cancer, the expression of PD-1 on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and its interaction with the ligands on tumor and immune cells in the tumor microenvironment undermine antitumor immunity and support its rationale for PD-1 blockade in cancer immunotherapy. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: This report details the development and characterization of nivolumab, a fully human IgG4 (S228P) anti-PD-1 receptor-blocking monoclonal antibody. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Nivolumab binds to PD-1 with high affinity and specificity, and effectively inhibits the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: In vitro assays demonstrated the ability of nivolumab to potently enhance T-cell responses and cytokine production in the mixed lymphocyte reaction and superantigen or cytomegalovirus stimulation assays. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: No in vitro antibody-dependent cell-mediated or complement-dependent cytotoxicity was observed with the use of nivolumab and activated T cells as targets. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Nivolumab treatment did not induce adverse immune-related events when given to cynomolgus macaques at high concentrations, independent of circulating anti-nivolumab antibodies where observed. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: These data provide a comprehensive preclinical characterization of nivolumab, for which antitumor activity and safety have been demonstrated in human clinical trials in various solid tumors. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: BACKGROUND Observational studies report reduced colorectal cancer in regular aspirin consumers. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Randomised controlled trials have shown reduced risk of adenomas but none have employed prevention of colorectal cancer as a primary endpoint. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: The CAPP2 trial aimed to investigate the antineoplastic effects of aspirin and a resistant starch in carriers of Lynch syndrome, the major form of hereditary colorectal cancer; we now report long-term follow-up of participants randomly assigned to aspirin or placebo. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: METHODS In the CAPP2 randomised trial, carriers of Lynch syndrome were randomly assigned in a two-by-two factorial design to 600 mg aspirin or aspirin placebo or 30 g resistant starch or starch placebo, for up to 4 years. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Randomisation was in blocks of 16 with provision for optional single-agent randomisation and extended postintervention double-blind follow-up; participants and investigators were masked to treatment allocation. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: The primary endpoint was development of colorectal cancer. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Analysis was by intention to treat and per protocol. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: This trial is registered, ISRCTN59521990. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: RESULTS 861 participants were randomly assigned to aspirin or aspirin placebo. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: At a mean follow-up of 55·7 months, 48 participants had developed 53 primary colorectal cancers (18 of 427 randomly assigned to aspirin, 30 of 434 to aspirin placebo). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Intention-to-treat analysis of time to first colorectal cancer showed a hazard ratio (HR) of 0·63 (95% CI 0·35-1·13, p=0·12). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Poisson regression taking account of multiple primary events gave an incidence rate ratio (IRR) of 0·56 (95% CI 0·32-0·99, p=0·05). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: For participants completing 2 years of intervention (258 aspirin, 250 aspirin placebo), per-protocol analysis yielded an HR of 0·41 (0·19-0·86, p=0·02) and an IRR of 0·37 (0·18-0·78, p=0·008). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: No data for adverse events were available postintervention; during the intervention, adverse events did not differ between aspirin and placebo groups. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: INTERPRETATION 600 mg aspirin per day for a mean of 25 months substantially reduced cancer incidence after 55·7 months in carriers of hereditary colorectal cancer. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Further studies are needed to establish the optimum dose and duration of aspirin treatment. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: FUNDING European Union; Cancer Research UK; Bayer Corporation; National Starch and Chemical Co; UK Medical Research Council; Newcastle Hospitals trustees; Cancer Council of Victoria Australia; THRIPP South Africa; The Finnish Cancer Foundation; SIAK Switzerland; Bayer Pharma. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: BACKGROUND Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease in developed countries. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: We evaluated the renoprotective effects of dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system by adding treatment with aliskiren, an oral direct renin inhibitor, to treatment with the maximal recommended dose of losartan (100 mg daily) and optimal antihypertensive therapy in patients who had hypertension and type 2 diabetes with nephropathy. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: METHODS We enrolled 599 patients in this multinational, randomized, double-blind study. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: After a 3-month, open-label, run-in period during which patients received 100 mg of losartan daily, patients were randomly assigned to receive 6 months of treatment with aliskiren (150 mg daily for 3 months, followed by an increase in dosage to 300 mg daily for another 3 months) or placebo, in addition to losartan. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: The primary outcome was a reduction in the ratio of albumin to creatinine, as measured in an early-morning urine sample, at 6 months. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: RESULTS The baseline characteristics of the two groups were similar. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: Treatment with 300 mg of aliskiren daily, as compared with placebo, reduced the mean urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio by 20% (95% confidence interval, 9 to 30; P<0.001), with a reduction of 50% or more in 24.7% of the patients who received aliskiren as compared with 12.5% of those who received placebo (P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: A small difference in blood pressure was seen between the treatment groups by the end of the study period (systolic, 2 mm Hg lower [P=0.07] and diastolic, 1 mm Hg lower [P=0.08] in the aliskiren group). Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: The total numbers of adverse and serious adverse events were similar in the groups. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: CONCLUSIONS Aliskiren may have renoprotective effects that are independent of its blood-pressure-lowering effect in patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and nephropathy who are receiving the recommended renoprotective treatment. Relevant:
Query: The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. Document: (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00097955 [ClinicalTrials.gov].). Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: In vivo activation of Klebsiella aerogenes urease, a nickel-containing enzyme, requires the presence of functional UreD, UreF, and UreG accessory proteins and is further facilitated by UreE. These accessory proteins are proposed to be involved in metallocenter assembly (M. H. Lee, S. B. Mulrooney, M. J. Renner, Y. Markowicz, and R. P. Hausinger, J. Bacteriol. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: 174:4324-4330, 1992). Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: A series of three UreD-urease apoprotein complexes are present in cells that express ureD at high levels, and these complexes are thought to be essential for in vivo activation of the enzyme (I.-S. Park, M. B. Carr, and R. P. Hausinger, Proc. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Natl. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Acad. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Sci. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: USA 91:3233-3237, 1994). Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: In this study, we describe the effect of accessory gene deletions on urease complex formation. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: The ureE, ureF, and ureG gene products were found not to be required for formation of the UreD-urease complexes; however, the complexes from the ureF deletion mutant exhibited delayed elution during size exclusion chromatography. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Because these last complexes were of typical UreD-urease sizes according to native gel electrophoretic analysis, we propose that UreF alters the conformation of the UreD-urease complexes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: The same studies revealed the presence of an additional series of urease apoprotein complexes present only in cells containing ureD, ureF, and ureG, along with the urease subunit genes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: These new complexes were shown to contain urease, UreD, UreF, and UreG. We propose that the UreD-UreF-UreG-urease apoprotein complexes represent the activation-competent form of urease apoprotein in the cell. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: The region located immediately upstream from the Klebsiella aerogenes urease structural genes was sequenced and shown to possess an open reading frame capable of encoding a 29.8-kDa peptide. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Deletions were generated in this gene, denoted ureD, and in each of the genes (ureE, ureF, and ureG) located immediately downstream of the three structural genes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Transformation of the mutated plasmids into Escherichia coli resulted in high levels of urease expression, but the enzyme was inactive (deletions in ureD, ureF, or ureG) or only partially active (deletions in ureE). Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Ureases were purified from the recombinant cells and shown to be identical to control enzyme when analyzed by gel filtration chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; however, in every case the activity levels correlated to nickel contents as analyzed by atomic absorption analysis. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: UreD, UreE, UreF, and UreG peptides were tentatively identified by gel electrophoretic comparison of mutant and control cell extracts, by in vivo expression of separately cloned genes, or by in vitro transcription-translation analyses; the assignments were confirmed for UreE and UreG by amino-terminal sequencing. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: The latter peptides (apparent M(r)s, 23,900 and 28,500) were present at high levels comparable to those of the urease subunits, whereas the amounts of UreF (apparent M(r), 27,000) and UreD (apparent M(r), 29,300) were greatly reduced, perhaps because of the lack of good ribosome binding sites in the regions upstream of these open reading frames. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: These results demonstrate that all four accessory genes are necessary for the functional incorporation of the urease metallocenter. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: In vivo assembly of the Klebsiella aerogenes urease nickel metallocenter requires the presence of UreD, UreF, and UreG accessory proteins and is further facilitated by UreE. Prior studies had shown that urease apoprotein exists in an uncomplexed form as well as in a series of UreD-urease (I.-S. Park, M.B. Carr, and R.P. Hausinger, Proc. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Natl. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Acad. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Sci. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: USA 91:3233-3237, 1994) and UreD-UreF-UreG-urease (I.-S. Park and R.P. Hausinger, J. Bacteriol. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: 177:1947-1951, 1995) apoprotein complexes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: This study demonstrates the existence of a distinct series of complexes consisting of UreD, UreF, and urease apoprotein. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: These novel complexes exhibited activation properties that were distinct from urease and UreD-urease apoprotein complexes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Unlike the previously described species, the UreD-UreF-urease apoprotein complexes were resistant to inactivation by NiCl2. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: The bicarbonate concentration dependence for UreD-UreF-urease apoenzyme activation was significantly decreased compared with that of the urease and UreD-urease apoproteins. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. Document: Western blot (immunoblot) analyses with polyclonal anti-urease and anti-UreD antibodies indicated that UreD is masked in the UreD-UreF-urease complexes, presumably by UreF. We propose that the binding of UreF modulates the UreD-urease apoprotein activation properties by excluding nickel ions from binding to the active site until after formation of the carbamylated lysine metallocenter ligand. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: In vivo assembly of the Klebsiella aerogenes urease nickel metallocenter requires the presence of UreD, UreF, and UreG accessory proteins and is further facilitated by UreE. Prior studies had shown that urease apoprotein exists in an uncomplexed form as well as in a series of UreD-urease (I.-S. Park, M.B. Carr, and R.P. Hausinger, Proc. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Natl. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Acad. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Sci. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: USA 91:3233-3237, 1994) and UreD-UreF-UreG-urease (I.-S. Park and R.P. Hausinger, J. Bacteriol. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: 177:1947-1951, 1995) apoprotein complexes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: This study demonstrates the existence of a distinct series of complexes consisting of UreD, UreF, and urease apoprotein. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: These novel complexes exhibited activation properties that were distinct from urease and UreD-urease apoprotein complexes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Unlike the previously described species, the UreD-UreF-urease apoprotein complexes were resistant to inactivation by NiCl2. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: The bicarbonate concentration dependence for UreD-UreF-urease apoenzyme activation was significantly decreased compared with that of the urease and UreD-urease apoproteins. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Western blot (immunoblot) analyses with polyclonal anti-urease and anti-UreD antibodies indicated that UreD is masked in the UreD-UreF-urease complexes, presumably by UreF. We propose that the binding of UreF modulates the UreD-urease apoprotein activation properties by excluding nickel ions from binding to the active site until after formation of the carbamylated lysine metallocenter ligand. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Antigen-presenting, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-rich dendritic cells are known to arise from bone marrow. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: However, marrow lacks mature dendritic cells, and substantial numbers of proliferating less-mature cells have yet to be identified. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: The methodology for inducing dendritic cell growth that was recently described for mouse blood now has been modified to MHC class II-negative precursors in marrow. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: A key step is to remove the majority of nonadherent, newly formed granulocytes by gentle washes during the first 2-4 d of culture. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: This leaves behind proliferating clusters that are loosely attached to a more firmly adherent "stroma. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: " Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: At days 4-6 the clusters can be dislodged, isolated by 1-g sedimentation, and upon reculture, large numbers of dendritic cells are released. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: The latter are readily identified on the basis of their distinct cell shape, ultrastructure, and repertoire of antigens, as detected with a panel of monoclonal antibodies. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: The dendritic cells express high levels of MHC class II products and act as powerful accessory cells for initiating the mixed leukocyte reaction. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Neither the clusters nor mature dendritic cells are generated if macrophage colony-stimulating factor rather than granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is applied. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Therefore, GM-CSF generates all three lineages of myeloid cells (granulocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells). Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Since > 5 x 10(6) dendritic cells develop in 1 wk from precursors within the large hind limb bones of a single animal, marrow progenitors can act as a major source of dendritic cells. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: This feature should prove useful for future molecular and clinical studies of this otherwise trace cell type. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: We have conducted a genomewide investigation into the enzymatic specificity, expression profiles, and binding locations of four histone deacetylases (HDACs), representing the three different phylogenetic classes in fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe). Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: By directly comparing nucleosome density, histone acetylation patterns and HDAC binding in both intergenic and coding regions with gene expression profiles, we found that Sir2 (class III) and Hos2 (class I) have a role in preventing histone loss; Clr6 (class I) is the principal enzyme in promoter-localized repression. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Hos2 has an unexpected role in promoting high expression of growth-related genes by deacetylating H4K16Ac in their open reading frames. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Clr3 (class II) acts cooperatively with Sir2 throughout the genome, including the silent regions: rDNA, centromeres, mat2/3 and telomeres. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: The most significant acetylation sites are H3K14Ac for Clr3 and H3K9Ac for Sir2 at their genomic targets. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Clr3 also affects subtelomeric regions which contain clustered stress- and meiosis-induced genes. Relevant:
Query: The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. Document: Thus, this combined genomic approach has uncovered different roles for fission yeast HDACs at the silent regions in repression and activation of gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: CONTEXT Peristomal pyoderma gangrenosum (PPG), an unusual variant of pyoderma gangrenosum, has been reported almost exclusively in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and is frequently misdiagnosed. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: OBJECTIVE To better characterize the clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and management of PPG. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Retrospective analysis of 7 patients with PPG observed in a university-affiliated community setting between 1988 and December 1999. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Clinical and histopathologic features, associated disorders, and microbiologic findings. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: RESULTS Two patients had Crohn disease, 2 had ulcerative colitis, and 3 had abdominal cancer. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Five patients had at least 1 relapse of PPG after initial healing. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Although 3 of 4 patients with IBD had active bowel disease, a parallel course with PPG occurred in only 1 patient. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Both patients whose stoma was relocated developed an ulcer at the new site. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Effective therapies included topical superpotent corticosteroids; intralesional injection of triamcinolone acetonide at the ulcer margin; topical cromolyn sodium; oral dapsone, prednisone, cyclosporine, mycophenolate mofetil; and intravenous infliximab. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: CONCLUSION Our experiences demonstrate that although PPG has been most often reported in patients with IBD, it may occur in the absence of IBD. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Biopsy of the skin lesion is not diagnostic but excludes other causes. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Relocation of the stoma may be associated with a new ulceration and should be avoided. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Trauma to the skin of a predisposed patient may elicit the pustules or ulcerations associated with pathergy. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: JAMA. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: 2000;284:1546-1548. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Cannabis has a potential for clinical use often obscured by unreliable and purely anecdotal reports. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: The most important natural cannabinoid is the psychoactive tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC); others include cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabigerol (CBG). Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Not all the observed effects can be ascribed to THC, and the other constituents may also modulate its action; for example CBD reduces anxiety induced by THC. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: A standardised extract of the herb may be therefore be more beneficial in practice and clinical trial protocols have been drawn up to assess this. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: The mechanism of action is still not fully understood, although cannabinoid receptors have been cloned and natural ligands identified. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Cannabis is frequently used by patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) for muscle spasm and pain, and in an experimental model of MS low doses of cannabinoids alleviated tremor. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Most of the controlled studies have been carried out with THC rather than cannabis herb and so do not mimic the usual clincal situation. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Small clinical studies have confirmed the usefulness of THC as an analgesic; CBD and CBG also have analgesic and antiinflammatory effects, indicating that there is scope for developing drugs which do not have the psychoactive properties ofTHC. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Patients taking the synthetic derivative nabilone for neurogenic pain actually preferred cannabis herb and reported that it relieved not only pain but the associated depression and anxiety. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Cannabinoids are effective in chemotherapy-induced emesis and nabilone has been licensed for this use for several years. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Currently, the synthetic cannabinoid HU211 is undergoing trials as a protective agent after brain trauma. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Anecdotal reports of cannabis use include case studies in migraine and Tourette’s syndrome, and as a treatment for asthma and glaucoma. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Apart from the smoking aspect, the safety profile of cannabis is fairly good. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: However, adverse reactions include panic or anxiety attacks, which are worse in the elderly and in women, and less likely in children. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Although psychosis has been cited as a consequence of cannabis use, an examination of psychiatric hospital admissions found no evidence of this, however, it may exacerbate existing symptoms. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: The relatively slow elimination from the body of the cannabinoids has safety implications for cognitive tasks, especially driving and operating machinery; although driving impairment with cannabis is only moderate, there is a significant interaction with alcohol. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Natural materials are highly variable and multiple components need to be standardised to ensure reproducible effects. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Pure natural and synthetic compounds do not have these disadvantages but may not have the overall therapeutic effect of the herb. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: ContextChronic hepatitis C is the leading cause for liver transplantation in the United States. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Intravenous drug use, the major risk factor, accounts for approximately 60% of hepatitis C virus transmission. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Information from the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) does not address substance use among liver transplantation patients. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: ObjectiveTo identify addiction-related criteria for admission to the UNOS liver transplantation waiting list and posttransplantation problems experienced by patients who are prescribed maintenance methadone. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Design, Setting, and ParticipantsMail survey of all 97 adult US liver transplantation programs (belonging to UNOS) in March 2000 with telephone follow-up conducted in May and June 2000.Main Outcome MeasuresPrograms' acceptance and management of patients with past or present substance use disorder. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: ResultsOf the 97 programs surveyed, 87 (90%) responded. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: All accept applicants with a history of alcoholism or other addictions, including heroin dependence. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Eighty-eight percent of the responding programs require at least 6 months of abstinence from alcohol; 83% from illicit drugs. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Ninety-four percent have addiction treatment requirements. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Consultations from substance abuse specialists are obtained by 86%. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Patients receiving methadone maintenance are accepted by 56% of the responding programs. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Approximately 180 patients receiving methadone maintenance are reported to have undergone liver transplantation. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: ConclusionsMost liver transplantation programs have established policies for patients with substance use disorders. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Opiate-dependent patients receiving opiate replacement therapy seem underrepresented in transplantation programs. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Little anecdotal evidence for negative impact of opiate replacement therapy on liver transplantation outcome was found. Relevant:
Query: Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. Document: Policies requiring discontinuation of methadone in 32% of all programs contradict the evidence base for efficacy of long-term replacement therapies and potentially result in relapse of previously stable patients. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: CONTEXT Recent animal studies have found that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) lipid-lowering drugs (statins) substantially increase bone formation, but whether statin use in humans results in clinically meaningful bone formation or a reduction in the risk of osteoporotic fractures is not known. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether the use of statins is associated with reduced hip fracture risk. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: DESIGN Case-control study. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: SETTING AND PATIENTS A total of 6110 New Jersey residents aged 65 years or older and enrolled in Medicare and either Medicaid or the Pharmacy Assistance for the Aged and Disabled program. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Case patients (n=1222) underwent surgical repair of a hip fracture in 1994. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Control patients (n=4888) were identified at a ratio of 4:1 and frequency-matched to case patients for age and sex. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Adjusted odds ratio (OR) of hip fracture by statin use in the 180 days and 3 years prior to the index date (the earliest date of admission for surgery), adjusted for demographic and clinical characteristics and health care utilization. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: RESULTS Use of statins in either the prior 180 days (adjusted OR, 0.50; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.33-0.76) or prior 3 years (adjusted OR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.40-0.82) was associated with a significant reduction in the risk of hip fracture, even after controlling for variables such as race, insurance status, psychoactive medications, estrogen and thiazide use, ischemic heart disease, cancer, and diabetes mellitus. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: No significant relationship was observed between use of nonstatin lipid-lowering agents and hip fracture risk. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Clear relationships were observed between the degree of reduction in hip fracture risk and the extent of statin use; there was no evidence of such relationships with nonstatin lipid-lowering agents. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: After adjusting for extent of statin use in the prior 3 years, current use (on the index date) was associated with a 71% reduction in risk (adjusted OR, 0.29; 95% CI, 0.10-0.81). Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: The relationship between statin use and hip fracture risk persisted after controlling for variables such as the number of medications, the Charlson comorbidity index score, and hospitalization or nursing home stay in the last 180 days, as well as after excluding patients who were in a nursing home prior to their index date or who died in the year after their index date. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Use of nonstatin lipid-lowering agents was not observed to be associated with reduction in hip fracture risk in any of these alternative models or analyses. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: CONCLUSIONS These findings support an association between statin use by elderly patients and reduction in the risk of hip fracture. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Controlled trials are needed to exclude the possibility of unmeasured confounders. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: JAMA. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: 2000;283:3211-3216 Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: CONTEXT Osteoporosis causes substantial morbidity and costs $13.8 billion annually in the United States. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Measurement of bone mass by densitometry is a primary part of diagnosing osteoporosis and deciding a preventive treatment course. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Bone mineral densitometry has become more widely available and commonly used in practice. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: OBJECTIVE To review evidence about the value of various clinical applications of bone densitometry. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: DATA SOURCES A MEDLINE search was performed to update previous meta-analyses of the relationship between various measurements of bone density and risk of vertebral and hip fracture. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: We used data from the prospective Study of Osteoporotic Fractures to estimate risk of fracture from bone density and age in postmenopausal women. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION When available, meta-analyses and systematic reviews are emphasized in the review. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: DATA SYNTHESIS Bone mineral density (BMD) predicts fracture and can be used in combination with age to estimate absolute risk of fractures in postmenopausal white women. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Hip BMD predicts hip fracture more strongly than other measurements of BMD. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: There are insufficient data to translate BMD results into risk of fracture for men and nonwhite women. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: The benefits of treatments to prevent fractures depend on BMD: women with osteoporosis have a greater risk of fractures and greater benefit from treatments than women without osteoporosis. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: CONCLUSIONS Guidelines based on systematic reviews and a cost-effectiveness analysis have suggested that it is worthwhile to measure BMD in white women older than 65 years and perhaps to use risk factors to select younger postmenopausal women for densitometry. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Other potential clinical applications of BMD that have not yet been adequately studied include screening men or nonwhite women, monitoring BMD in patients receiving treatment, and using BMD to identify patients who should be evaluated for secondary causes of osteoporosis. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Dosing convenience is a key element in the effective management of any chronic disease, and is particularly important in the long-term management of osteoporosis. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Less frequent dosing with any medication may enhance compliance, thereby maximizing the effectiveness of therapy. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Animal data support the rationale that once-weekly dosing with alendronate 70 mg (7 times the daily oral treatment dose) could provide similar efficacy to daily dosing with alendronate 10 mg due to its long duration of effect in bone. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: In addition, dog studies suggest that the potential for esophageal irritation, observed with daily oral bisphosphonates, may be substantially reduced with once-weekly dosing. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: This dosing regimen would provide patients with increased convenience and would be likely to enhance patient compliance. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: We compared the efficacy and safety of treatment with oral once-weekly alendronate 70 mg (N=519), twice-weekly alendronate 35 mg (N=369), and daily alendronate 10 mg (N=370) in a one-year, double-blind, multicenter study of postmenopausal women (ages 42 to 95) with osteoporosis (bone mineral density [BMD] of either lumbar spine or femoral neck at least 2.5 SDs below peak premenopausal mean, or prior vertebral or hip fracture). Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: The primary efficacy endpoint was the comparability of increases in lumbar spine BMD, using strict pre-defined equivalence criteria. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Secondary endpoints included changes in BMD at the hip and total body and rate of bone turnover, as assessed by biochemical markers. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Both of the new regimens fully satisfied the equivalence criteria relative to daily therapy. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Mean increases in lumbar spine BMD at 12 months were: 5.1% (95% CI 4.8, 5.4) in the 70 mg once-weekly group, 5.2% (4.9, 5.6) in the 35 mg twice-weekly group, and 5.4% (5.0, 5.8) in the 10 mg daily treatment group. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Increases in BMD at the total hip, femoral neck, trochanter, and total body were similar for the three dosing regimens. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: All three treatment groups similarly reduced biochemical markers of bone resorption (urinary N-telopeptides of type I collagen) and bone formation (serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase) into the middle of the premenopausal reference range. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: All treatment regimens were well tolerated with a similar incidence of upper GI adverse experiences. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: There were fewer serious upper GI adverse experiences and a trend toward a lower incidence of esophageal events in the once-weekly dosing group compared to the daily dosing group. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: These data are consistent with preclinical animal models, and suggest that once-weekly dosing has the potential for improved upper GI tolerability. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: Clinical fractures, captured as adverse experiences, were similar among the groups. Relevant:
Query: There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. Document: We conclude that the alendronate 70 mg once-weekly dosing regimen will provide patients with a more convenient, therapeutically equivalent alternative to daily dosing, and may enhance compliance and long-term persistence with therapy. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: Background  Macrosomia is associated with considerable neonatal and maternal morbidity. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: Factors that predict macrosomia are poorly understood. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: The increased rate of macrosomia in the offspring of pregnant women with diabetes and in congenital hyperinsulinaemia is mediated by increased foetal insulin secretion. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: We assessed the in utero and neonatal role of two key regulators of pancreatic insulin secretion by studying birthweight and the incidence of neonatal hypoglycaemia in patients with heterozygous mutations in the maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) genes HNF4A (encoding HNF-4α) and HNF1A/TCF1 (encoding HNF-1α), and the effect of pancreatic deletion of Hnf4a on foetal and neonatal insulin secretion in mice. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: Incidences of breast cancer, type 2 diabetes, and metabolic syndrome have increased over the past decades with the obesity epidemic, especially in industrialized countries. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: Insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and changes in the signaling of growth hormones and steroid hormones associated with diabetes may affect the risk of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: We reviewed epidemiologic studies of the association between type 2 diabetes and risk of breast cancer and the available evidence on the role of hormonal mediators of an association between diabetes and breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: The combined evidence supports a modest association between type 2 diabetes and the risk of breast cancer, which appears to be more consistent among postmenopausal than among premenopausal women. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: Despite many proposed potential pathways, the mechanisms underlying an association between diabetes and breast cancer risk remain unclear, particularly because the 2 diseases share several risk factors, including obesity, a sedentary lifestyle, and possibly intake of saturated fat and refined carbohydrates, that may confound this association. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: Although the metabolic syndrome is closely related to diabetes and embraces additional components that might influence breast cancer risk, the role of the metabolic syndrome in breast carcinogenesis has not been studied and thus remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: AIMS/HYPOTHESIS We assessed the association between congenital malformations and maternal hyperglycemia in pregnant women with pregestational (type 1 or type 2) diabetes and investigated if the rate of congenital malformations was similar in women with near-normal glycemic control compared to the background population. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: We also assessed the association between congenital malformations and maternal hyperglycemia in pregnant women with pregestational diabetes with special focus on women with near-normal HbA1c in early pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: MATERIALS AND METHODS This is a literature review based on an electronic literature search of the databases PubMed, Cochrane, Embase and Web of Science conducted in July 2017 using the search terms diabetes, pregnancy, HbA1c or glycemic control and congenital anomaly or congenital anomaly. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: We included original papers in English published after 1997 with data on congenital malformations and HbA1c in at least 250 women with pregestational diabetes. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: RESULTS Nine papers with in total 6225 women with type 1 diabetes and 2334 women with type 2 diabetes were included. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: The prevalence of congenital malformations was 6.4% in women with type 1 diabetes and 4.3% in women with type 2 diabetes and for the combined group of women with pregestational diabetes, the relative risk compared to the background population was 3.2. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: In women with HbA1c < 53 mmol/mol (7.0%) in early pregnancy or HbA1c 53-64 mmol/mol (7.0-8.0%) the prevalence of congenital malformations was 4.3 and 3.7%, respectively, with a relative risk of 2.2 and 1.9, respectively. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: CONCLUSIONS In pregnant women with pregestational diabetes the prevalence of congenital abnormalities was threefold higher in women with pregestational diabetes compared to the background population. Relevant:
Query: There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. Document: However, HbA1c below 53 mmol/mol (7.0%) in early pregnancy was also associated with a two times increased risk of congenital malformations compared to the background population. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: BACKGROUND Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism are common after stroke. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: In small trials of patients undergoing surgery, graduated compression stockings (GCS) reduce the risk of DVT. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: National stroke guidelines extrapolating from these trials recommend their use in patients with stroke despite insufficient evidence. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: We assessed the effectiveness of thigh-length GCS to reduce DVT after stroke. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: METHODS In this outcome-blinded, randomised controlled trial, 2518 patients who were admitted to hospital within 1 week of an acute stroke and who were immobile were enrolled from 64 centres in the UK, Italy, and Australia. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: Patients were allocated via a central randomisation system to routine care plus thigh-length GCS (n=1256) or to routine care plus avoidance of GCS (n=1262). Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: A technician who was blinded to treatment allocation undertook compression Doppler ultrasound of both legs at about 7-10 days and, when practical, again at 25-30 days after enrolment. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: The primary outcome was the occurrence of symptomatic or asymptomatic DVT in the popliteal or femoral veins. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: Analyses were by intention to treat. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: This study is registered, number ISRCTN28163533. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: FINDINGS All patients were included in the analyses. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: The primary outcome occurred in 126 (10.0%) patients allocated to thigh-length GCS and in 133 (10.5%) allocated to avoid GCS, resulting in a non-significant absolute reduction in risk of 0.5% (95% CI -1.9% to 2.9%). Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: Skin breaks, ulcers, blisters, and skin necrosis were significantly more common in patients allocated to GCS than in those allocated to avoid their use (64 [5%] vs 16 [1%]; odds ratio 4.18, 95% CI 2.40-7.27). Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: INTERPRETATION These data do not lend support to the use of thigh-length GCS in patients admitted to hospital with acute stroke. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: National guidelines for stroke might need to be revised on the basis of these results. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: FUNDING Medical Research Council (UK), Chief Scientist Office of Scottish Government, Chest Heart and Stroke Scotland, Tyco Healthcare (Covidien) USA, and UK Stroke Research Network. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: as compared with 103 (8.2 percent) in the control group; the Kaplan-Meier estimates of the likelihood of freedom from deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days were 94.1 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 92.5 to 95.4 percent) and 90.6 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 88.7 to 92.2 percent), respectively (P 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: The computer alert reduced the risk of deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days by 41 percent (hazard ratio, 0.59; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.43 to 0.81; P 0.001). Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: CONCLUSIONS The institution of a computer-alert program increased physicians’ use of prophylaxis and markedly reduced the rates of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism among hospitalized patients at risk. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: Editorial Comment: Most hospitals have adopted electronic systems to alert physicians of drug interactions or possible substitutions, as well as other measures designed to improve the quality of care and decrease expenses. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: This approach was taken one step further by these authors, who evaluated whether notifying physicians that their patients were at increased risk for venous thromboembolism would decrease the incidence of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: The premise was that simply notifying the physician would increase the use of appropriate prophylactic measures. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: Major surgery (defined as anything requiring general anesthesia), cancer and age greater than 75 years were included among the risk factors, each of which frequently applies to a urology population. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: In fact, more than 13% of the patients in the intervention group had a known diagnosis of a genitourinary cancer. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: The computer alert decreased the risk of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism by 41%. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: There are 2 lessons urologists can learn from this study. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: First, many urology patients are at increased risk for venous thromboembolism and appropriate prophylaxis should be used. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: In addition, although computer alert systems may seem intrusive at times, clinicians can expect to see more and more of them if there is further documentation that they improve the quality of care. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: CONTEXT The association of an adult tele-intensive care unit (ICU) intervention with hospital mortality, length of stay, best practice adherence, and preventable complications for an academic medical center has not been reported. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: OBJECTIVE To quantify the association of a tele-ICU intervention with hospital mortality, length of stay, and complications that are preventable by adherence to best practices. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Prospective stepped-wedge clinical practice study of 6290 adults admitted to any of 7 ICUs (3 medical, 3 surgical, and 1 mixed cardiovascular) on 2 campuses of an 834-bed academic medical center that was performed from April 26, 2005, through September 30, 2007. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: Electronically supported and monitored processes for best practice adherence, care plan creation, and clinician response times to alarms were evaluated. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Case-mix and severity-adjusted hospital mortality. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: Other outcomes included hospital and ICU length of stay, best practice adherence, and complication rates. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: RESULTS The hospital mortality rate was 13.6% (95% confidence interval [CI], 11.9%-15.4%) during the preintervention period compared with 11.8% (95% CI, 10.9%-12.8%) during the tele-ICU intervention period (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 0.40 [95% CI, 0.31-0.52]). Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: The tele-ICU intervention period compared with the preintervention period was associated with higher rates of best clinical practice adherence for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (99% vs 85%, respectively; OR, 15.4 [95% CI, 11.3-21.1]) and prevention of stress ulcers (96% vs 83%, respectively; OR, 4.57 [95% CI, 3.91-5.77], best practice adherence for cardiovascular protection (99% vs 80%, respectively; OR, 30.7 [95% CI, 19.3-49.2]), prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia (52% vs 33%, respectively; OR, 2.20 [95% CI, 1.79-2.70]), lower rates of preventable complications (1.6% vs 13%, respectively, for ventilator-associated pneumonia [OR, 0.15; 95% CI, 0.09-0.23] and 0.6% vs 1.0%, respectively, for catheter-related bloodstream infection [OR, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.27-0.93]), and shorter hospital length of stay (9.8 vs 13.3 days, respectively; hazard ratio for discharge, 1.44 [95% CI, 1.33-1.56]). Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: The results for medical, surgical, and cardiovascular ICUs were similar. Relevant:
Query: Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. Document: CONCLUSION In a single academic medical center study, implementation of a tele-ICU intervention was associated with reduced adjusted odds of mortality and reduced hospital length of stay, as well as with changes in best practice adherence and lower rates of preventable complications. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Increased dyspnea and reduced exercise capacity in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) can be partly attributed to impaired respiratory muscle function. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: This prospective study was designed to assess the impact of exercise and respiratory training on respiratory muscle strength and 6-min walking distance (6MWD) in PAH patients. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Patients with invasively confirmed PAH underwent 3 weeks of in-hospital exercise and respiratory training, which was continued at home for another 12 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Medication remained constant during the study period. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Blinded observers assessed efficacy parameters at baseline (I) and after 3 (II) and 15 weeks (III). Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Respiratory muscle function was assessed by twitch mouth pressure (TwPmo) during nonvolitional supramaximal magnetic phrenic nerve stimulation. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Seven PAH patients (4 women; mean pulmonary artery pressure 45 ± 11 mmHg, median WHO functional class 3.1 ± 0.4, idiopathic/associated PAH n = 5/2) were included. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: The training program was feasible and well tolerated by all patients with excellent compliance. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: TwPmo was I: 0.86 ± 0.37 kPa, II: 1.04 ± 0.29 kPa, and III: 1.27 ± 0.44 kPa, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: 6MWD was I: 417 ± 51 m, II: 509 ± 39 m, and III: 498 ± 39 m, respectively. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Both TwPmo (+0.41 ± 0.34 kPa, +56 ± 39 %) and 6MWD (+81 ± 30 m, +20 ± 9 %) increased significantly in the period between baseline and the final assessment (pairwise comparison: p = 0.012/<0.001; RM-ANOVA considering I, II, III: p = 0.037/<0.001). Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Exercise and respiratory training as an adjunct to medical therapy may be effective in patients with PAH to improve respiratory muscle strength and exercise capacity. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Future, randomized, controlled trials should be carried out to further investigate these findings. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Limited neural input results in muscle weakness in neuromuscular disease because of a reduction in the density of muscle innervation, the rate of neuromuscular junction activation or the efficiency of synaptic transmission. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: We developed a small-molecule fast-skeletal-troponin activator, CK-2017357, as a means to increase muscle strength by amplifying the response of muscle when neural input is otherwise diminished secondary to neuromuscular disease. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Binding selectively to the fast-skeletal-troponin complex, CK-2017357 slows the rate of calcium release from troponin C and sensitizes muscle to calcium. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: As a consequence, the force-calcium relationship of muscle fibers shifts leftwards, as does the force-frequency relationship of a nerve-muscle pair, so that CK-2017357 increases the production of muscle force in situ at sub-maximal nerve stimulation rates. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Notably, we show that sensitization of the fast-skeletal-troponin complex to calcium improves muscle force and grip strength immediately after administration of single doses of CK-2017357 in a model of the neuromuscular disease myasthenia gravis. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Troponin activation may provide a new therapeutic approach to improve physical activity in diseases where neuromuscular function is compromised. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Skeletal muscle extracellular matrix remodelling has been proposed as a new feature associated with obesity and metabolic dysfunction. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Exercise training improves muscle function in obesity, which may be mediated by regulatory effects on the muscle extracellular matrix. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: This review examined available literature on skeletal muscle extracellular matrix remodelling during obesity and the effects of exercise. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: A non-systematic literature review was performed on PubMed of publications from 1970 to 2015. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: A total of 37 studies from humans and animals were retained. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Studies reported overall increases in gene and protein expression of different types of collagen, growth factors and enzymatic regulators of the skeletal muscle extracellular matrix in obesity. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: Only two studies investigated the effects of exercise on skeletal muscle extracellular matrix during obesity, with both suggesting a regulatory effect of exercise. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: The effects of exercise on muscle extracellular matrix seem to be influenced by the duration and type of exercise training with variable effects from a single session compared with a longer duration of exercise. Relevant:
Query: Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. Document: More studies are needed to elucidate the mechanisms behind skeletal muscle extracellular matrix remodelling during obesity and the effects of exercise. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: How the infection risks compare after umbilical cord blood (UCB) and bone marrow (BM) transplantation is not known. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Therefore, we compared serious infections in the 2 years after pediatric myeloablative unrelated donor transplantation with unmanipulated BM (n = 52), T cell-depleted (TCD) BM (n = 24), or UCB (n = 60) for the treatment of hematologic malignancy. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Overall, the cumulative incidence of 1 or more serious infections was comparable between groups (BM, 81%; TCD, 83%; UCB, 90%; P = .12). Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Furthermore, by taking all serious infections into account and using multivariate techniques with unmanipulated BM as the reference, there were also no significant differences between groups (TCD relative risk [RR], 1.6; P = .10; UCB RR, 1.0; P = .84). Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Within the time periods days 0 to 42, days 43 to 100, and days 101 to 180, the only difference was a greater risk of viral infections from days 0 to 42 in TCD recipients (RR, 3.5; P = .02). Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Notably, after day 180, TCD recipients had a significantly increased infection risk (RR, 3.1; P = .03), whereas the risk in UCB recipients (RR, 0.5; P = .23) was comparable to that in BM recipients. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Other factors associated with an increased infection risk in the 2 years after transplantation were age > or = 8 years, graft failure, and severe acute graft-versus-host disease. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: These data suggest that the risk of serious infection after pediatric UCB transplantation is comparable to that with unmanipulated BM. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Umbilical cord blood (UCB) is now widely used as an alternative hematopoietic stem cell source for patients lacking closely matched related or unrelated adult donors. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: UCB transplantation has traditionally been associated with delayed engraftment, poor immune reconstitution and consequent increased risk of infection. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: More recent clinical studies, however, suggest that conditioning regimens and in particular the omission of in vivo T-cell depletion may play a crucial role in post-transplant T-cell expansion, facilitating a uniquely rapid immune recovery after UCB transplantation. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: The peculiar characteristics of UCB cells, the importance of thymic function and the role of conditioning regimens and graft-versus-host disease influencing immune reconstitution are described. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: The last part of the review reports available data on UCB, as well as third-party peripheral blood derived anti-viral cell therapy, which provides a novel approach to rescue UCB recipients with viral complications in the post-transplant period. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: CD4(+) T follicular helper (Tfh) cells provide the required signals to B cells for germinal center reactions that are necessary for long-lived antibody responses. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: However, it remains unclear whether there are CD4(+) memory T cells committed to the Tfh cell lineage after antigen clearance. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: By using adoptive transfer of antigen-specific memory CD4(+) T cell subpopulations in the lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection model, we found that there are distinct memory CD4(+) T cell populations with commitment to either Tfh- or Th1-cell lineages. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Our conclusions are based on gene expression profiles, epigenetic studies, and phenotypic and functional analyses. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: Our findings indicate that CD4(+) memory T cells "remember" their previous effector lineage after antigen clearance, being poised to reacquire their lineage-specific effector functions upon antigen reencounter. Relevant:
Query: Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. Document: These findings have important implications for rational vaccine design, where improving the generation and engagement of memory Tfh cells could be used to enhance vaccine-induced protective immunity. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: The long-term goal of nuclear transfer or alternative reprogramming approaches is to create patient-specific donor cells for transplantation therapy, avoiding immunorejection, a major complication in current transplantation medicine. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: It was recently shown that the four transcription factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc induce pluripotency in mouse fibroblasts. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: However, the therapeutic potential of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells for neural cell replacement strategies remained unexplored. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Here, we show that iPS cells can be efficiently differentiated into neural precursor cells, giving rise to neuronal and glial cell types in culture. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Upon transplantation into the fetal mouse brain, the cells migrate into various brain regions and differentiate into glia and neurons, including glutamatergic, GABAergic, and catecholaminergic subtypes. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Electrophysiological recordings and morphological analysis demonstrated that the grafted neurons had mature neuronal activity and were functionally integrated in the host brain. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Furthermore, iPS cells were induced to differentiate into dopamine neurons of midbrain character and were able to improve behavior in a rat model of Parkinson's disease upon transplantation into the adult brain. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: We minimized the risk of tumor formation from the grafted cells by separating contaminating pluripotent cells and committed neural cells using fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Our results demonstrate the therapeutic potential of directly reprogrammed fibroblasts for neuronal cell replacement in the animal model. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Human astrocytes are larger and more complex than those of infraprimate mammals, suggesting that their role in neural processing has expanded with evolution. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: To assess the cell-autonomous and species-selective properties of human glia, we engrafted human glial progenitor cells (GPCs) into neonatal immunodeficient mice. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Upon maturation, the recipient brains exhibited large numbers and high proportions of both human glial progenitors and astrocytes. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: The engrafted human glia were gap-junction-coupled to host astroglia, yet retained the size and pleomorphism of hominid astroglia, and propagated Ca2+ signals 3-fold faster than their hosts. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Long-term potentiation (LTP) was sharply enhanced in the human glial chimeric mice, as was their learning, as assessed by Barnes maze navigation, object-location memory, and both contextual and tone fear conditioning. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Mice allografted with murine GPCs showed no enhancement of either LTP or learning. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: These findings indicate that human glia differentially enhance both activity-dependent plasticity and learning in mice. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous herpesvirus that causes life-threatening disease in patients who are immunosuppressed for bone marrow or tissue transplantation or who have AIDS (ref. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: 1). Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: HCMV establishes lifelong latent infections and, after periodic reactivation from latency, uses a panel of immune evasion proteins to survive and replicate in the face of robust, fully primed host immunity. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Monocyte/macrophages are important host cells for HCMV, serving as a latent reservoir and as a means of dissemination throughout the body. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Macrophages and other HCMV-permissive cells, such as endothelial and glial cells, can express MHC class II proteins and present antigens to CD4+ T lymphocytes. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Here, we show that the HCMV protein US2 causes degradation of two essential proteins in the MHC class II antigen presentation pathway: HLA-DR-α and DM-α. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: This was unexpected, as US2 has been shown to cause degradation of MHC class I (refs. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: 5,6), which has only limited homology with class II proteins. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Expression of US2 in cells reduced or abolished their ability to present antigen to CD4+ T lymphocytes. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. Document: Thus, US2 may allow HCMV-infected macrophages to remain relatively 'invisible' to CD4+ T cells, a property that would be important after virus reactivation. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: The long-term goal of nuclear transfer or alternative reprogramming approaches is to create patient-specific donor cells for transplantation therapy, avoiding immunorejection, a major complication in current transplantation medicine. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: It was recently shown that the four transcription factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc induce pluripotency in mouse fibroblasts. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: However, the therapeutic potential of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells for neural cell replacement strategies remained unexplored. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Here, we show that iPS cells can be efficiently differentiated into neural precursor cells, giving rise to neuronal and glial cell types in culture. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Upon transplantation into the fetal mouse brain, the cells migrate into various brain regions and differentiate into glia and neurons, including glutamatergic, GABAergic, and catecholaminergic subtypes. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Electrophysiological recordings and morphological analysis demonstrated that the grafted neurons had mature neuronal activity and were functionally integrated in the host brain. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Furthermore, iPS cells were induced to differentiate into dopamine neurons of midbrain character and were able to improve behavior in a rat model of Parkinson's disease upon transplantation into the adult brain. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: We minimized the risk of tumor formation from the grafted cells by separating contaminating pluripotent cells and committed neural cells using fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Our results demonstrate the therapeutic potential of directly reprogrammed fibroblasts for neuronal cell replacement in the animal model. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Human astrocytes are larger and more complex than those of infraprimate mammals, suggesting that their role in neural processing has expanded with evolution. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: To assess the cell-autonomous and species-selective properties of human glia, we engrafted human glial progenitor cells (GPCs) into neonatal immunodeficient mice. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Upon maturation, the recipient brains exhibited large numbers and high proportions of both human glial progenitors and astrocytes. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: The engrafted human glia were gap-junction-coupled to host astroglia, yet retained the size and pleomorphism of hominid astroglia, and propagated Ca2+ signals 3-fold faster than their hosts. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Long-term potentiation (LTP) was sharply enhanced in the human glial chimeric mice, as was their learning, as assessed by Barnes maze navigation, object-location memory, and both contextual and tone fear conditioning. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Mice allografted with murine GPCs showed no enhancement of either LTP or learning. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: These findings indicate that human glia differentially enhance both activity-dependent plasticity and learning in mice. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Arodent cardiac side population cell fraction formed clonal spheroids in serum-free medium, which expressed nestin, Musashi-1, and multi-drug resistance transporter gene 1, markers of undifferentiated neural precursor cells. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: These markers were lost following differentiation, and were replaced by the expression of neuron-, glial-, smooth muscle cell–, or cardiomyocyte-specific proteins. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Cardiosphere-derived cells transplanted into chick embryos migrated to the truncus arteriosus and cardiac outflow tract and contributed to dorsal root ganglia, spinal nerves, and aortic smooth muscle cells. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Lineage studies using double transgenic mice encoding protein 0–Cre/Floxed-EGFP revealed undifferentiated and differentiated neural crest-derived cells in the fetal myocardium. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: Undifferentiated cells expressed GATA-binding protein 4 and nestin, but not actinin, whereas the differentiated cells were identified as cardiomyocytes. Relevant:
Query: Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. Document: These results suggest that cardiac neural crest-derived cells migrate into the heart, remain there as dormant multipotent stem cells—and under the right conditions—differentiate into cardiomyocytes and typical neural crest-derived cells, including neurons, glia, and smooth muscle. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Physical activity induces a subclinical inflammatory response, mediated in part by leukocytes, and manifested by elevated concentrations of circulating proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: However, the source of the cytokines that appear during exercise remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: In this study, we examined exercise-induced changes in plasma cytokine concentrations and their corresponding mRNA expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Ten healthy [peak oxygen uptake = 48.8 ± 6.5 (SD) ml · kg−1 · min−1] but untrained men [age = 25 ± 5 (SD) yr] undertook 3 h of exercise (cycling and inclined walking) at 60–65% peak oxygen uptake. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Circulating leukocyte subset counts were elevated during and 2 h postexercise but returned to normal within 24 h. Plasma concentrations of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α peaked at the end of exercise and remained elevated at 2 h (IL-6) and up to 24 h (IL-1β and TNF-α) postexercise. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Cytokine gene expression in circulating mononucl... Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Asthma is one of the most common inflammatory diseases characterized by airway hyperresponsiveness, inflammation, and remodeling. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Morin, an active ingredient obtained from Moraceae plants, has been demonstrated to have promising anti-inflammatory activities in a range of disorders. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: However, its impacts on pulmonary diseases, particularly on asthma, have not been clarified. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: This study was designed to investigate whether morin alleviates airway inflammation in chronic asthma with an emphasis on oxidative stress modulation. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: In vivo, ovalbumin- (OVA-) sensitized mice were administered with morin or dexamethasone before challenge. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and lung tissues were obtained to perform cell counts, histological analysis, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: In vitro, human bronchial epithelial cells (BECs) were challenged by tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: The supernatant was collected for the detection of the proinflammatory proteins, and the cells were collected for reactive oxygen species (ROS)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) evaluations. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Severe inflammatory responses and remodeling were observed in the airways of the OVA-sensitized mice. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Treatment with morin dramatically attenuated the extensive trafficking of inflammatory cells into the BALF and inhibited their infiltration around the respiratory tracts and vessels. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Morin administration also significantly suppressed goblet cell hyperplasia and collagen deposition/fibrosis and dose-dependently inhibited the OVA-induced increases in IgE, TNF-α, interleukin- (IL-) 4, IL-13, matrix metalloproteinase-9, and malondialdehyde. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: In human BECs challenged by TNF-α, the levels of proteins such as eotaxin-1, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, IL-8 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1, were consistently significantly decreased by morin. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Western blotting and the 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein assay revealed that the increases in intracellular ROS and MAPK phosphorylation were abolished by morin, implying that ROS/MAPK signaling contributes to the relief of airway inflammation. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Our findings indicate for the first time that morin alleviates airway inflammation in chronic asthma, which probably occurs via the oxidative stress-responsive MAPK pathway, highlighting a novel profile of morin as a potent agent for asthma management. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Proteinase-activated receptors (PARs) belong to a family of G protein-coupled receptors. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: PARs are activated by a serine-dependent cleavage generating a tethered activating ligand. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: PAR-2 was shown to be involved in inflammatory pathways. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: We investigated the in situ levels and modulation of PAR-2 in human normal and osteoarthritis (OA) cartilage/chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Furthermore, we evaluated the role of PAR-2 on the synthesis of the major catabolic factors in OA cartilage, including metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-13 and the inflammatory mediator cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), as well as the PAR-2-activated signalling pathways in OA chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: PAR-2 expression was determined using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and protein levels by immunohistochemistry in normal and OA cartilage. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Protein modulation was investigated in OA cartilage explants treated with a specific PAR-2-activating peptide (PAR-2-AP), SLIGKV-NH2 (1 to 400 μM), interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β) (100 pg/mL), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) (5 ng/mL), transforming growth factor-beta-1 (TGF-β1) (10 ng/mL), or the signalling pathway inhibitors of p38 (SB202190), MEK1/2 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) (PD98059), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) (SN50), and PAR-2 levels were determined by immunohistochemistry. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Signalling pathways were analyzed on OA chondrocytes by Western blot using specific phospho-antibodies against extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2), p38, JNK (c-jun N-terminal kinase), and NF-κB in the presence or absence of the PAR-2-AP and/or IL-1β. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: PAR-2-induced MMP and COX-2 levels in cartilage were determined by immunohistochemistry. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: PAR-2 is produced by human chondrocytes and is significantly upregulated in OA compared with normal chondrocytes (p < 0.04 and p < 0.03, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: The receptor levels were significantly upregulated by IL-1β (p < 0.006) and TNF-α (p < 0.002) as well as by the PAR-2-AP at 10, 100, and 400 μM (p < 0.02) and were downregulated by the inhibition of p38. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: After 48 hours of incubation, PAR-2 activation significantly induced MMP-1 and COX-2 starting at 10 μM (both p < 0.005) and MMP-13 at 100 μM (p < 0.02) as well as the phosphorylation of Erk1/2 and p38 within 5 minutes of incubation (p < 0.03). Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: Though not statistically significant, IL-1β produced an additional effect on the activation of Erk1/2 and p38. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: This study documents, for the first time, functional consequences of PAR-2 activation in human OA cartilage, identifies p38 as the major signalling pathway regulating its synthesis, and demonstrates that specific PAR-2 activation induces Erk1/2 and p38 in OA chondrocytes. Relevant:
Query: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. Document: These results suggest PAR-2 as a potential new therapeutic target for the treatment of OA. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Delayed T cell recovery and restricted T cell receptor (TCR) diversity after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) are associated with increased risks of infection and cancer relapse. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Technical challenges have limited faithful measurement of TCR diversity after allo-HSCT. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Here we combined 5' rapid amplification of complementary DNA ends PCR with deep sequencing to quantify TCR diversity in 28 recipients of allo-HSCT using a single oligonucleotide pair. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Analysis of duplicate blood samples confirmed that we accurately determined the frequency of individual TCRs. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: After 6 months, cord blood-graft recipients approximated the TCR diversity of healthy individuals, whereas recipients of T cell-depleted peripheral-blood stem cell grafts had 28-fold and 14-fold lower CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell diversities, respectively. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: After 12 months, these deficiencies had improved for the CD4(+) but not the CD8(+) T cell compartment. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Overall, this method provides unprecedented views of T cell repertoire recovery after allo-HSCT and may identify patients at high risk of infection or relapse. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Umbilical cord blood (UCB) is now widely used as an alternative hematopoietic stem cell source for patients lacking closely matched related or unrelated adult donors. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: UCB transplantation has traditionally been associated with delayed engraftment, poor immune reconstitution and consequent increased risk of infection. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: More recent clinical studies, however, suggest that conditioning regimens and in particular the omission of in vivo T-cell depletion may play a crucial role in post-transplant T-cell expansion, facilitating a uniquely rapid immune recovery after UCB transplantation. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: The peculiar characteristics of UCB cells, the importance of thymic function and the role of conditioning regimens and graft-versus-host disease influencing immune reconstitution are described. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: The last part of the review reports available data on UCB, as well as third-party peripheral blood derived anti-viral cell therapy, which provides a novel approach to rescue UCB recipients with viral complications in the post-transplant period. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: How the infection risks compare after umbilical cord blood (UCB) and bone marrow (BM) transplantation is not known. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Therefore, we compared serious infections in the 2 years after pediatric myeloablative unrelated donor transplantation with unmanipulated BM (n = 52), T cell-depleted (TCD) BM (n = 24), or UCB (n = 60) for the treatment of hematologic malignancy. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Overall, the cumulative incidence of 1 or more serious infections was comparable between groups (BM, 81%; TCD, 83%; UCB, 90%; P = .12). Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Furthermore, by taking all serious infections into account and using multivariate techniques with unmanipulated BM as the reference, there were also no significant differences between groups (TCD relative risk [RR], 1.6; P = .10; UCB RR, 1.0; P = .84). Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Within the time periods days 0 to 42, days 43 to 100, and days 101 to 180, the only difference was a greater risk of viral infections from days 0 to 42 in TCD recipients (RR, 3.5; P = .02). Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Notably, after day 180, TCD recipients had a significantly increased infection risk (RR, 3.1; P = .03), whereas the risk in UCB recipients (RR, 0.5; P = .23) was comparable to that in BM recipients. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Other factors associated with an increased infection risk in the 2 years after transplantation were age > or = 8 years, graft failure, and severe acute graft-versus-host disease. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: These data suggest that the risk of serious infection after pediatric UCB transplantation is comparable to that with unmanipulated BM. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Delayed T cell recovery and restricted T cell receptor (TCR) diversity after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) are associated with increased risks of infection and cancer relapse. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Technical challenges have limited faithful measurement of TCR diversity after allo-HSCT. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Here we combined 5' rapid amplification of complementary DNA ends PCR with deep sequencing to quantify TCR diversity in 28 recipients of allo-HSCT using a single oligonucleotide pair. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Analysis of duplicate blood samples confirmed that we accurately determined the frequency of individual TCRs. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: After 6 months, cord blood-graft recipients approximated the TCR diversity of healthy individuals, whereas recipients of T cell-depleted peripheral-blood stem cell grafts had 28-fold and 14-fold lower CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell diversities, respectively. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: After 12 months, these deficiencies had improved for the CD4(+) but not the CD8(+) T cell compartment. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Overall, this method provides unprecedented views of T cell repertoire recovery after allo-HSCT and may identify patients at high risk of infection or relapse. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Umbilical cord blood (UCB) is now widely used as an alternative hematopoietic stem cell source for patients lacking closely matched related or unrelated adult donors. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: UCB transplantation has traditionally been associated with delayed engraftment, poor immune reconstitution and consequent increased risk of infection. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: More recent clinical studies, however, suggest that conditioning regimens and in particular the omission of in vivo T-cell depletion may play a crucial role in post-transplant T-cell expansion, facilitating a uniquely rapid immune recovery after UCB transplantation. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: The peculiar characteristics of UCB cells, the importance of thymic function and the role of conditioning regimens and graft-versus-host disease influencing immune reconstitution are described. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: The last part of the review reports available data on UCB, as well as third-party peripheral blood derived anti-viral cell therapy, which provides a novel approach to rescue UCB recipients with viral complications in the post-transplant period. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: How the infection risks compare after umbilical cord blood (UCB) and bone marrow (BM) transplantation is not known. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Therefore, we compared serious infections in the 2 years after pediatric myeloablative unrelated donor transplantation with unmanipulated BM (n = 52), T cell-depleted (TCD) BM (n = 24), or UCB (n = 60) for the treatment of hematologic malignancy. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Overall, the cumulative incidence of 1 or more serious infections was comparable between groups (BM, 81%; TCD, 83%; UCB, 90%; P = .12). Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Furthermore, by taking all serious infections into account and using multivariate techniques with unmanipulated BM as the reference, there were also no significant differences between groups (TCD relative risk [RR], 1.6; P = .10; UCB RR, 1.0; P = .84). Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Within the time periods days 0 to 42, days 43 to 100, and days 101 to 180, the only difference was a greater risk of viral infections from days 0 to 42 in TCD recipients (RR, 3.5; P = .02). Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Notably, after day 180, TCD recipients had a significantly increased infection risk (RR, 3.1; P = .03), whereas the risk in UCB recipients (RR, 0.5; P = .23) was comparable to that in BM recipients. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: Other factors associated with an increased infection risk in the 2 years after transplantation were age > or = 8 years, graft failure, and severe acute graft-versus-host disease. Relevant:
Query: UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. Document: These data suggest that the risk of serious infection after pediatric UCB transplantation is comparable to that with unmanipulated BM. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: DNA damage tolerance during eukaryotic replication is orchestrated by PCNA ubiquitination. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: While monoubiquitination activates mutagenic translesion synthesis, polyubiquitination activates an error-free pathway, elusive in mammals, enabling damage bypass by template switching. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Fork reversal is driven in vitro by multiple enzymes, including the DNA translocase ZRANB3, shown to bind polyubiquitinated PCNA. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: However, whether this interaction promotes fork remodeling and template switching in vivo was unknown. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Here we show that damage-induced fork reversal in mammalian cells requires PCNA ubiquitination, UBC13, and K63-linked polyubiquitin chains, previously involved in error-free damage tolerance. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Fork reversal in vivo also requires ZRANB3 translocase activity and its interaction with polyubiquitinated PCNA, pinpointing ZRANB3 as a key effector of error-free DNA damage tolerance. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Mutations affecting fork reversal also induced unrestrained fork progression and chromosomal breakage, suggesting fork remodeling as a global fork slowing and protection mechanism. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Targeting these fork protection systems represents a promising strategy to potentiate cancer chemotherapy. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of the replication licensing factor Cdt1 (Cdc10-dependent transcript 1) in S phase is a key mechanism that limits DNA replication to a single round per cell cycle in metazoans. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: In Xenopus egg extracts, Cdt1 is destroyed on chromatin during DNA replication. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Here, we report that replication-dependent proteolysis of Cdt1 requires its interaction with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a homotrimeric processivity factor for DNA polymerases. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Cdt1 binds to PCNA through a consensus PCNA-interaction motif that is conserved in Cdt1 of all metazoans, and removal of PCNA from egg extracts inhibits replication-dependent Cdt1 destruction. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Mutation of the PCNA-interaction motif yields a stabilized Cdt1 protein that induces re-replication. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: DDB1, a component of the Cul4 E3 ubiquitin ligase that mediates human Cdt1 proteolysis in response to DNA damage, is also required for replication-dependent Cdt1 destruction. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Cdt1 and DDB1 interact in extracts, and DDB1 chromatin loading is dependent on the binding of Cdt1 to PCNA, which indicates that PCNA docking activates the pre-formed Cdt1–Cul4DDB1 ligase complex. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Thus, PCNA functions as a platform for Cdt1 destruction, ensuring efficient and temporally restricted inactivation of a key cell-cycle regulator. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: The mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS; also known as IPS-1, VISA, and CARDIF) is essential for innate immune response against RNA viruses. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: MAVS transduces signals from the cytosolic RIG-I-like receptors, which bind to viral RNAs. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: But how MAVS activates downstream transcription factors such as IRF3 to induce type-I interferons is not well understood. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: We have established a cell-free system in which mitochondria derived from virus-infected cells activate IRF3 in the cytosol. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Fractionation of the cytosol led to the identification of Ubc5 as a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) required for IRF3 activation. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Using an inducible RNAi strategy, we demonstrate that catalytically active Ubc5 is required for IRF3 activation by viral infection. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: The activation of IRF3 also requires two ubiquitin-binding domains of NEMO. Relevant:
Query: Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. Document: Furthermore, we show that replacement of endogenous ubiquitin with its K63R mutant abolishes viral activation of IRF3, demonstrating that K63 polyubiquitination plays a key role in IRF3 activation. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine whether ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed lumbar punctures or epidural catheterisations, when compared with standard palpation methods, and whether ultrasound imaging can reduce traumatic procedures, insertion attempts, and needle redirections. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: DESIGN Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: DATA SOURCES Ovid Medline, Embase, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials up to May 2012, without restriction by language or publication status. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: REVIEW METHODS Randomised trials that compared ultrasound imaging with standard methods (no imaging) in the performance of a lumbar puncture or epidural catheterisation were identified. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: RESULTS 14 studies with a total of 1334 patients were included (674 patients assigned to the ultrasound group, 660 to the control group). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Five studies evaluated lumbar punctures and nine evaluated epidural catheterisations. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Six of 624 procedures conducted in the ultrasound group failed; 44 of 610 procedures in the control group failed. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Ultrasound imaging reduced the risk of failed procedures (risk ratio 0.21 (95% confidence interval 0.10 to 0.43), P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Risk reduction was similar when subgroup analysis was performed for lumbar punctures (risk ratio 0.19 (0.07 to 0.56), P=0.002) or epidural catheterisations (0.23 (0.09 to 0.60), P=0.003). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Ultrasound imaging also significantly reduced the risk of traumatic procedures (risk ratio 0.27 (0.11 to 0.67), P=0.005), the number of insertion attempts (mean difference -0.44 (-0.64 to -0.24), P<0.001), and the number of needle redirections (mean difference -1.00 (-1.24 to -0.75), P<0.001). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: CONCLUSIONS Ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed or traumatic lumbar punctures and epidural catheterisations, as well as the number of needle insertions and redirections. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Ultrasound may be a useful adjunct for these procedures. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: CONTEXT Diagnostic lumbar punctures (LPs), commonly used to rule out meningitis, are associated with adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: OBJECTIVE To systematically review the evidence about diagnostic LP techniques that may decrease the risk of adverse events and the evidence about test accuracy of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis in adult patients with suspected bacterial meningitis. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: DATA SOURCES We searched the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE (using Ovid and PubMed) from 1966 to January 2006 and EMBASE from 1980 to January 2006 without language restrictions to identify relevant studies and identified others from the bibliographies of retrieved articles. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: STUDY SELECTION We included randomized trials of patients aged 18 years or older undergoing interventions to facilitate a successful diagnostic LP or to potentially reduce adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Studies assessing the accuracy of biochemical analysis of the CSF for possible bacterial meningitis were also identified. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: DATA EXTRACTION Two investigators independently appraised study quality and extracted relevant data. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: For studies of the LP technique, data on the intervention and the outcome were extracted. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: For studies of the laboratory diagnosis of bacterial meningitis, data on the reference standard and test accuracy were extracted. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: DATA SYNTHESIS We found 15 randomized trials. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: A random-effects model was used for quantitative synthesis. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Five studies of 587 patients compared atraumatic needles with standard needles and found a nonsignificant decrease in the odds of headache with an atraumatic needle (absolute risk reduction [ARR], 12.3%; 95% confidence interval [CI], -1.72% to 26.2%). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Reinsertion of the stylet before needle removal decreased the risk of headache (ARR, 11.3%; 95% CI, 6.50%-16.2%). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: The combined results from 4 studies of 717 patients showed a nonsignificant decrease in headache in patients who were mobilized after LP (ARR, 2.9%; 95% CI, -3.4 to 9.3%). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Four studies on the accuracy of biochemical analysis of CSF in patients with suspected meningitis met inclusion criteria. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: A CSF-blood glucose ratio of 0.4 or less (likelihood ratio [LR], 18; 95% CI, 12-27]), CSF white blood cell count of 500/muL or higher (LR, 15; 95% CI, 10-22), and CSF lactate level of 31.53 mg/dL or more (> or =3.5 mmol/L; LR, 21; 95% CI, 14-32) accurately diagnosed bacterial meningitis. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: CONCLUSIONS These data suggest that small-gauge, atraumatic needles may decrease the risk of headache after diagnostic LP. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Reinsertion of the stylet before needle removal should occur and patients do not require bed rest after the procedure. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Future research should focus on evaluating interventions to optimize the success of a diagnostic LP and to enhance training in procedural skills. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Pancreatic cancer is a highly lethal malignancy with few effective therapies. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: We performed exome sequencing and copy number analysis to define genomic aberrations in a prospectively accrued clinical cohort (n = 142) of early (stage I and II) sporadic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Detailed analysis of 99 informative tumours identified substantial heterogeneity with 2,016 non-silent mutations and 1,628 copy-number variations. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: We define 16 significantly mutated genes, reaffirming known mutations (KRAS, TP53, CDKN2A, SMAD4, MLL3, TGFBR2, ARID1A and SF3B1), and uncover novel mutated genes including additional genes involved in chromatin modification (EPC1 and ARID2), DNA damage repair (ATM) and other mechanisms (ZIM2, MAP2K4, NALCN, SLC16A4 and MAGEA6). Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Integrative analysis with in vitro functional data and animal models provided supportive evidence for potential roles for these genetic aberrations in carcinogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: Pathway-based analysis of recurrently mutated genes recapitulated clustering in core signalling pathways in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, and identified new mutated genes in each pathway. Relevant:
Query: Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. Document: We also identified frequent and diverse somatic aberrations in genes described traditionally as embryonic regulators of axon guidance, particularly SLIT/ROBO signalling, which was also evident in murine Sleeping Beauty transposon-mediated somatic mutagenesis models of pancreatic cancer, providing further supportive evidence for the potential involvement of axon guidance genes in pancreatic carcinogenesis. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: p53 functions as a transcription factor involved in cell-cycle control, DNA repair, apoptosis and cellular stress responses. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: However, besides inducing cell growth arrest and apoptosis, p53 activation also modulates cellular senescence and organismal aging. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Senescence is an irreversible cell-cycle arrest that has a crucial role both in aging and as a robust physiological antitumor response, which counteracts oncogenic insults. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Therefore, via the regulation of senescence, p53 contributes to tumor growth suppression, in a manner strictly dependent by its expression and cellular context. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: In this review, we focus on the recent advances on the contribution of p53 to cellular senescence and its implication for cancer therapy, and we will discuss p53’s impact on animal lifespan. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Moreover, we describe p53-mediated regulation of several physiological pathways that could mediate its role in both senescence and aging. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Cellular senescence is a stable form of cell-cycle arrest which is thought to limit the proliferative potential of premalignant cells [1]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The senescence phenotype was initially described by Hayflick and Moorhead in 1961 on human fibroblasts undergoing replicative exhaustion in culture [2]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: It has been shown that senescence can be triggered in different cell types in response to diverse forms of cellular damage or stress (for review see [1]). Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Importantly, while senescence was denounced as a tissue culture phenomenon for many years, recent in vivo studies demonstrated that cellular senescence represents a potent failsafe mechanism against tumorigenesis and contributes to the cytotoxicity of certain anticancer agents (see for example [3-7]). Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Interestingly, senescent cells have also been observed in certain aged or damaged tissues and there is growing evidence that senescence checkpoints can affect the regenerative reserve of tissues and organismal aging [8-11]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: However, senescence may also have positive effects on organ maintenance by limiting pathological responses to acute forms of injury such as fibrotic scarring in response to chemical induced liver injury [12]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Over the past years it was also shown that senescent cells can communicate with their environment by secreting a myriad of cytokines and growth factors. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Interestingly, this "senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP)" seems to be a double edged sword regarding tumor initiation and maintenance:    i)    On the one hand, it has been shown that the SASP can have pro-tumorigenic effects. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: In an experimental system it was shown that senescent mesenchymal cells can enhance the tumorigenicity of surrounding breast cancer cells [13]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: ii)    Similarly, it is possible that the SASP enhances selection of transformed cell clones in aged organ systems. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: It has been shown that loss of proliferative competition of non-transformed cells can accelerate leukemogenesis [14]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: It remains to be seen whether aberrant secretion of cytokines and growth factors by the SASP can accelerated this process in aged and chronically damage organ systems. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: iii)    In contrast to its pro-tumorigenic aspect, the SASP could also have anti-tumor effects. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: A recent study showed that in a mosaic liver cancer mouse model the activation of p53 induced senescence, an upregulation of inflammatory cytokines, and activation of innate immune responses leading to tumour cell clearance [15]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: iv)    In further support that the SASP could have anti-tumor activities, a series of recent papers showed that components of the SASP can stabilize the senescence cell cycle arrest via an autoregulatory feedback loop [16,17] or induces apoptosis of tumor cells [18]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: In addition to its effects on tumorigenesis, the SASP could also influence tissue aging. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Studies on aging telomere dysfunctional mice have provided direct experimental evidence for an in vivo activation of the SASP in response to telomere dysfunction [19]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Interestingly, this in vivo SASP provoked alterations in stem cell differentiation (skewing of hematopoiesis towards reduction in lymphopoiesis and enhancement of myelopoiesis) that are also characteristic signs of human aging. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Figure 1. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Different cellular stresses can induce senescence including telomere shortening, DNA damage, and oncogene activation. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Senescence of tumor cells ... Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: In light of the many possible roles o the SASP in aging and carcinogenesis, it appears to be of utmost importance to decipher regulatory pathways controlling the SASP. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: In a current publication, Bhaumik et al. have identified 2 microRNAs (miR-146a/b) that negatively regulate the secretion of IL-6 and IL-8 - two of the SASP [20]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The authors show that these microRNAs are up-regulated at late stages of senescence, many days after a permanent cell cycle arrest has been established. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Interestingly, the inhibitory miRs are most strongly up-regulated in senescence of cell lines that show a strong SASP but not in cell lines characterized by a weak SASP. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The authors propose a new concept indicating that miRs 146a and b function in a negative feedback loop preventing an over-activation of the SASP in senescent cells. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The authors present some initial data suggesting that activation of this negative feedback loop involves IL-1 receptor, IRAK-1, and NFκB signalling leading to an up-regulation of miRs-146a and b. A direct proof that this proposed feedback loop suppresses over-activation of the SASP remains to be demonstrated in future studies. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The authors show that blockage of IL-1-receptor signalling prevents both the up-regulation of miRs-146a and b as well as Il-6 secretion. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: To confirm their new concept, it would be important to show that a selective blockage of miRs-146a and b results in over-activation of the SASP. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The work by Bhaumik et al. places mir-146a/b as central players to control IL-6 and IL-8 expression within the SASP. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: MicroRNAs are emerging therapeutic targets because their expression levels can be effectively modulated via the use of antagomirs (see for example [21]). Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Also, for increasing microRNA expression, microRNAs can be delivered into cellsin vivo (see for example [22]). Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Therefore, it will be interesting to functionally test the impact of mir-146 inhibition on tumorigenesis and aging in relevant mouse models. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Such studies will be of particular interest, as recent work showed that IL-6 secretion by senescent cells is relevant for initiating and maintaining the senescene response via an autocrine loop [17]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: A reduction of miR-146 could increase IL-6 levels in senescent cells, which should stabilize the senescence program and reduce the risk of malignant transformation. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Furthermore, it can be speculated that reduction of mir-146 a/b will increase NfκB activation via IRAK1. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: As NfκB is modulating the expression of various inflammation associated genes, this may also lead to increased clearance of senescent tumor cells by the innate immune system. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: However, it should be mentioned that Il-6 secreted by senescent cells can also act as a mitogen for surrounding cells, thus potentially increasing the risk of malignant transformation [13,17]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Besides its function in SASP modulation, miR-146 was also reported to target the mRNAs of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumor suppressors. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: In a recent study a G to C polymorphism in miR-146, which leads to an increased processing and release of the mature microRNA, can predict an early onset of breast cancer [23]. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Taken together, the study of Bhaumik et al. opens an interesting new research area dealing with the gene regulatory mechanisms that control activation of the SASP. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Given the diverse roles of the SASP in modulating tumor progression, immune surveillance of damaged cells, and the stabilization of the senescence arrest itself, it will be of great interest to analyse the influence of SASP regulatory pathways during aging and cancer. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The process of aging results in a host of changes at the cellular and molecular levels, which include senescence, telomere shortening, and changes in gene expression. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Epigenetic patterns also change over the lifespan, suggesting that epigenetic changes may constitute an important component of the aging process. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: The epigenetic mark that has been most highly studied is DNA methylation, the presence of methyl groups at CpG dinucleotides. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: These dinucleotides are often located near gene promoters and associate with gene expression levels. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Early studies indicated that global levels of DNA methylation increase over the first few years of life and then decrease beginning in late adulthood. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Recently, with the advent of microarray and next-generation sequencing technologies, increases in variability of DNA methylation with age have been observed, and a number of site-specific patterns have been identified. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: It has also been shown that certain CpG sites are highly associated with age, to the extent that prediction models using a small number of these sites can accurately predict the chronological age of the donor. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: Together, these observations point to the existence of two phenomena that both contribute to age-related DNA methylation changes: epigenetic drift and the epigenetic clock. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: In this review, we focus on healthy human aging throughout the lifetime and discuss the dynamics of DNA methylation as well as how interactions between the genome, environment, and the epigenome influence aging rates. Relevant:
Query: Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. Document: We also discuss the impact of determining 'epigenetic age' for human health and outline some important caveats to existing and future studies. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: West Nile virus (WNV) is the most common arthropod-borne flavivirus in the United States; however, the vector ligand(s) that participate in infection are not known. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: We now show that an Aedes aegypti C-type lectin, mosGCTL-1, is induced by WNV, interacts with WNV in a calcium-dependent manner, and facilitates infection in vivo and in vitro. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: A mosquito homolog of human CD45 in A. aegypti, designated mosPTP-1, recruits mosGCTL-1 to enable viral attachment to cells and to enhance viral entry. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: In vivo experiments show that mosGCTL-1 and mosPTP-1 function as part of the same pathway and are critical for WNV infection of mosquitoes. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: A similar phenomenon was also observed in Culex quinquefasciatus, a natural vector of WNV, further demonstrating that these genes participate in WNV infection. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: During the mosquito blood-feeding process, WNV infection was blocked in vivo with mosGCTL-1 antibodies. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: A molecular understanding of flaviviral-arthropod interactions may lead to strategies to control viral dissemination in nature. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: West Nile virus (WNV) is a major cause of mosquito-borne illness in the United States. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Human disease ranges from mild febrile illness to severe fatal neurologic infection. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Adults aged >60 years are more susceptible to neuroinvasive disease accompanied by a high mortality rate or long-lasting neurologic sequelae. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: A chimeric live attenuated West Nile virus vaccine, rWN/DEN4&Dgr;30, was shown to be safe and immunogenic in healthy adults aged 18–50 years. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: This study evaluated rWN/DEN4&Dgr;30 in flavivirus-naive adults aged 50–65 years and found it to be safe and immunogenic. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Outbreaks of WNV infection tend to be unpredictable, and a safe and effective vaccine will be an important public health tool. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Intrahost genetic diversity was analysed in naturally infected mosquitoes and birds to determine whether West Nile virus (WNV) exists in nature as a quasispecies and to quantify selective pressures within and between hosts. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: WNV was sampled from ten infected birds and ten infected mosquito pools collected on Long Island, NY, USA, during the peak of the 2003 WNV transmission season. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: A 1938 nt fragment comprising the 3' 1159 nt of the WNV envelope (E) coding region and the 5' 779 nt of the non-structural protein 1 (NS1) coding region was amplified and cloned and 20 clones per specimen were sequenced. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Results from this analysis demonstrate that WNV infections are derived from a genetically diverse population of genomes in nature. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: The mean nucleotide diversity was 0.016 % within individual specimens and the mean percentage of clones that differed from the consensus sequence was 19.5 %. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: WNV sequences in mosquitoes were significantly more genetically diverse than WNV in birds. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: No host-dependent bias for particular types of mutations was observed and estimates of genetic diversity did not differ significantly between E and NS1 coding sequences. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Non-consensus clones obtained from two avian specimens had highly similar genetic signatures, providing preliminary evidence that WNV genetic diversity may be maintained throughout the enzootic transmission cycle, rather than arising independently during each infection. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Evidence of purifying selection was obtained from both intra- and interhost WNV populations. Relevant:
Query: Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. Document: Combined, these data support the observation that WNV populations may be structured as a quasispecies and document strong purifying natural selection in WNV populations. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: IMPORTANCE Combining pharmacotherapies for tobacco-dependence treatment may increase smoking abstinence. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: OBJECTIVE To determine efficacy and safety of varenicline and bupropion sustained-release (SR; combination therapy) compared with varenicline (monotherapy) in cigarette smokers. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled multicenter clinical trial with a 12-week treatment period and follow-up through week 52 conducted between October 2009 and April 2013 at 3 midwestern clinical research sites. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Five hundred six adult (≥18 years) cigarette smokers were randomly assigned and 315 (62%) completed the study. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: INTERVENTIONS Twelve weeks of varenicline and bupropion SR or varenicline and placebo. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Primary outcome was abstinence rates at week 12, defined as prolonged (no smoking from 2 weeks after the target quit date) abstinence and 7-day point-prevalence (no smoking past 7 days) abstinence. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Secondary outcomes were prolonged and point-prevalence smoking abstinence rates at weeks 26 and 52. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Outcomes were biochemically confirmed. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: RESULTS At 12 weeks, 53.0% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged smoking abstinence and 56.2% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 43.2% and 48.6% in varenicline monotherapy (odds ratio [OR], 1.49; 95% CI, 1.05-2.12; P = .03 and OR, 1.36; 95% CI, 0.95-1.93; P = .09, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: At 26 weeks, 36.6% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged and 38.2% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 27.6% and 31.9% in varenicline monotherapy (OR, 1.52; 95% CI, 1.04-2.22; P = .03 and OR, 1.32; 95% CI, 0.91-1.91; P = .14, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: At 52 weeks, 30.9% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged and 36.6% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 24.5% and 29.2% in varenicline monotherapy (OR, 1.39; 95% CI, 0.93-2.07; P = .11 and OR, 1.40; 95% CI, 0.96-2.05; P = .08, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Participants receiving combination therapy reported more anxiety (7.2% vs 3.1%; P = .04) and depressive symptoms (3.6% vs 0.8%; P = .03). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Among cigarette smokers, combined use of varenicline and bupropion, compared with varenicline alone, increased prolonged abstinence but not 7-day point prevalence at 12 and 26 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Neither outcome was significantly different at 52 weeks. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Further research is required to determine the role of combination therapy in smoking cessation. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00935818. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: BACKGROUND Smoking is the leading preventable cause of illness and premature death worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Some medications have been proven to help people to quit, with three licensed for this purpose in Europe and the USA: nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), bupropion, and varenicline. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Cytisine (a treatment pharmacologically similar to varenicline) is also licensed for use in Russia and some of the former socialist economy countries. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Other therapies, including nortriptyline, have also been tested for effectiveness. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: OBJECTIVES How do NRT, bupropion and varenicline compare with placebo and with each other in achieving long-term abstinence (six months or longer)? Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: How do the remaining treatments compare with placebo in achieving long-term abstinence? Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: How do the risks of adverse and serious adverse events (SAEs) compare between the treatments, and are there instances where the harms may outweigh the benefits? Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: METHODS The overview is restricted to Cochrane reviews, all of which include randomised trials. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Participants are usually adult smokers, but we exclude reviews of smoking cessation for pregnant women and in particular disease groups or specific settings. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: We cover nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), antidepressants (bupropion and nortriptyline), nicotine receptor partial agonists (varenicline and cytisine), anxiolytics, selective type 1 cannabinoid receptor antagonists (rimonabant), clonidine, lobeline, dianicline, mecamylamine, Nicobrevin, opioid antagonists, nicotine vaccines, and silver acetate. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Our outcome for benefit is continuous or prolonged abstinence at least six months from the start of treatment. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Our outcome for harms is the incidence of serious adverse events associated with each of the treatments. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: We searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) in The Cochrane Library, for any reviews with 'smoking' in the title, abstract or keyword fields. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: The last search was conducted in November 2012. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: We assessed methodological quality using a revised version of the AMSTAR scale. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: For NRT, bupropion and varenicline we conducted network meta-analyses, comparing each with the others and with placebo for benefit, and varenicline and bupropion for risks of serious adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: MAIN RESULTS We identified 12 treatment-specific reviews. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: The analyses covered 267 studies, involving 101,804 participants. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Both NRT and bupropion were superior to placebo (odds ratios (OR) 1.84; 95% credible interval (CredI) 1.71 to 1.99, and 1.82; 95% CredI 1.60 to 2.06 respectively). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Varenicline increased the odds of quitting compared with placebo (OR 2.88; 95% CredI 2.40 to 3.47). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Head-to-head comparisons between bupropion and NRT showed equal efficacy (OR 0.99; 95% CredI 0.86 to 1.13). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Varenicline was superior to single forms of NRT (OR 1.57; 95% CredI 1.29 to 1.91), and to bupropion (OR 1.59; 95% CredI 1.29 to 1.96). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Varenicline was more effective than nicotine patch (OR 1.51; 95% CredI 1.22 to 1.87), than nicotine gum (OR 1.72; 95% CredI 1.38 to 2.13), and than 'other' NRT (inhaler, spray, tablets, lozenges; OR 1.42; 95% CredI 1.12 to 1.79), but was not more effective than combination NRT (OR 1.06; 95% CredI 0.75 to 1.48). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Combination NRT also outperformed single formulations. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: The four categories of NRT performed similarly against each other, apart from 'other' NRT, which was marginally more effective than NRT gum (OR 1.21; 95% CredI 1.01 to 1.46). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Cytisine (a nicotine receptor partial agonist) returned positive findings (risk ratio (RR) 3.98; 95% CI 2.01 to 7.87), without significant adverse events or SAEs. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Across the 82 included and excluded bupropion trials, our estimate of six seizures in the bupropion arms versus none in the placebo arms was lower than the expected rate (1:1000), at about 1:1500. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: SAE meta-analysis of the bupropion studies demonstrated no excess of neuropsychiatric (RR 0.88; 95% CI 0.31 to 2.50) or cardiovascular events (RR 0.77; 95% CI 0.37 to 1.59). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: SAE meta-analysis of 14 varenicline trials found no difference between the varenicline and placebo arms (RR 1.06; 95% CI 0.72 to 1.55), and subgroup analyses detected no significant excess of neuropsychiatric events (RR 0.53; 95% CI 0.17 to 1.67), or of cardiac events (RR 1.26; 95% CI 0.62 to 2.56). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Nortriptyline increased the chances of quitting (RR 2.03; 95% CI 1.48 to 2.78). Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Neither nortriptyline nor bupropion were shown to enhance the effect of NRT compared with NRT alone. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Clonidine increased the chances of quitting (RR 1.63; 95% CI 1.22 to 2.18), but this was offset by a dose-dependent rise in adverse events. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Mecamylamine in combination with NRT may increase the chances of quitting, but the current evidence is inconclusive. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Other treatments failed to demonstrate a benefit compared with placebo. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Nicotine vaccines are not yet licensed for use as an aid to smoking cessation or relapse prevention. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Nicobrevin's UK license is now revoked, and the manufacturers of rimonabant, taranabant and dianicline are no longer supporting the development or testing of these treatments. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS NRT, bupropion, varenicline and cytisine have been shown to improve the chances of quitting. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Combination NRT and varenicline are equally effective as quitting aids. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Nortriptyline also improves the chances of quitting. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: On current evidence, none of the treatments appear to have an incidence of adverse events that would mitigate their use. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Further research is warranted into the safety of varenicline and into cytisine's potential as an effective and affordable treatment, but not into the efficacy and safety of NRT. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Alcohol dependence is a disease that impacts millions of individuals worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: There has been some progress with pharmacotherapy for alcohol-dependent individuals; however, there remains a critical need for the development of novel and additional therapeutic approaches. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Alcohol and nicotine are commonly abused together, and there is evidence that neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) play a role in both alcohol and nicotine dependence. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Varenicline, a partial agonist at the alpha4beta2 nAChRs, reduces nicotine intake and was recently approved as a smoking cessation aid. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: We have investigated the role of varenicline in the modulation of ethanol consumption and seeking using three different animal models of drinking. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: We show that acute administration of varenicline, in doses reported to reduce nicotine reward, selectively reduced ethanol but not sucrose seeking using an operant self-administration drinking paradigm and also decreased voluntary ethanol but not water consumption in animals chronically exposed to ethanol for 2 months before varenicline treatment. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: Furthermore, chronic varenicline administration decreased ethanol consumption, which did not result in a rebound increase in ethanol intake when the varenicline was no longer administered. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: The data suggest that the alpha4beta2 nAChRs may play a role in ethanol-seeking behaviors in animals chronically exposed to ethanol. Relevant:
Query: Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. Document: The selectivity of varenicline in decreasing ethanol consumption combined with its reported safety profile and mild side effects in humans suggest that varenicline may prove to be a treatment for alcohol dependence. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Responses of cerebral blood vessels to nitric oxide (NO) are mediated by soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC)-dependent and potentially by sGC-independent mechanisms. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: One sGC-independent mechanism by which NO may produce vasodilatation is inhibition of formation of a vasoconstrictor metabolite produced through the cytochrome P450 pathway. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: In these experiments, we examined the hypothesis that dilatation of cerebral microvessels in response to NO is dependent on activation of sGC. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Diameters of cerebral arterioles (baseline diameter=94+/-5 micrometers, mean+/-S.E.) were measured using a closed cranial window in anesthetized rabbits. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Under control conditions, YC-1 [3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole], an NO-independent activator of sGC, produced vasodilation that was blocked by ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3,-a]quinoxalin-1-one)(10 microM), an inhibitor of sGC. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: These findings indicate that sGC is functionally important in cerebral arterioles. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: In addition, acetylcholine (which stimulates endogenous production of NO by endothelium) produced dilatation of cerebral arterioles that was inhibited by ODQ. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: For example, 1 microM acetylcholine dilated cerebral arterioles by 34+/-7 and 5+/-1% in the absence and presence of ODQ (10 microM), respectively. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Increases in arteriolar diameter in response to sodium nitroprusside (1 microM, an NO donor) were inhibited by approximately 80% by ODQ, but were not affected by 17-ODYA (10 microM) or clotrimazole (10 microM), inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 pathway. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Thus, dilatation of the cerebral microcirculation in response to exogenously applied and endogenously produced NO is dependent, in large part, on activation of sGC. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: BACKGROUND We have developed techniques to implant angiogenic patches onto the epicardium over regions of infarcted cardiac tissue to stimulate revascularization of the damaged tissue. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: These experiments used a scaffold-based 3D human dermal fibroblast culture (3DFC) as an epicardial patch. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: The 3DFC contains viable cells that secrete angiogenic growth factors and has previously been shown to stimulate angiogenic activity. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: The hypothesis tested was that a viable 3DFC cardiac patch would stimulate an angiogenic response within an area of infarcted cardiac tissue. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS A coronary occlusion of a branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery was performed by thermal ligation in severe combined immunodeficient mice. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: 3DFCs with or without viable cells were sized to the damaged area, implanted in replicate mice onto the epicardium at the site of tissue injury, and compared with animals that received infarct surgery but no implant. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Fourteen and 30 days after surgery, hearts were exposed and photographed, and tissue samples were prepared for histology and cytochemistry. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Fourteen and 30 days after surgery, the damaged myocardium receiving viable 3DFC exhibited a significantly greater angiogenic response (including arterioles, venules, and capillaries) than nonviable and untreated control groups. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this animal model, viable 3DFC stimulates angiogenesis within a region of cardiac infarction and can augment a repair response in damaged tissue. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Therefore, a potential use for 3DFC is the repair of myocardial tissue damaged by infarction. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: BACKGROUND Endothelium-dependent modulation of coronary tone is impaired in the collateral-dependent coronary microcirculation. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: We used a porcine model of chronic coronary occlusion and collateral development to evaluate the hypothesis that exercise training enhances endothelium-mediated relaxation and increases endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ecNOS) mRNA levels of collateral-dependent microvasculature. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS Adult female miniature swine were subjected to chronic, progressive ameroid occlusion of the proximal left circumflex coronary artery (LCx); after 2 months, animals were randomly exposed to 16-week exercise-training (EX group; treadmill running) or sedentary (SED group; cage confinement) protocols. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: After completion of EX or SED programs, coronary arterioles ( approximately 100 microm in diameter) were isolated from collateral-dependent LCx (distal to occlusion) and nonoccluded left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) regions of each heart. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Arterioles were studied by in vitro videomicroscopy or frozen for ecNOS mRNA analysis (RT-PCR techniques). Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Relaxation to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator bradykinin was decreased (P<0.05) in arterioles isolated from collateral-dependent LCx versus nonoccluded LAD regions of SED animals. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Bradykinin-mediated relaxation, however, was not different in LCx versus LAD arterioles isolated from EX animals. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Nitroprusside-induced relaxation was unaffected by either chronic occlusion or exercise. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: Importantly, ecNOS mRNA expression was significantly decreased in arterioles isolated from LCx versus LAD regions of SED animals. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: After training, ecNOS mRNA expression was not different between LAD and LCx arterioles. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. Document: CONCLUSIONS These data indicate that exercise training enhances bradykinin-mediated relaxation of collateral-dependent LCx arterioles isolated after chronic coronary occlusion, most likely because of effects on ecNOS mRNA expression and increased production of NO. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: BACKGROUND We have developed techniques to implant angiogenic patches onto the epicardium over regions of infarcted cardiac tissue to stimulate revascularization of the damaged tissue. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: These experiments used a scaffold-based 3D human dermal fibroblast culture (3DFC) as an epicardial patch. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: The 3DFC contains viable cells that secrete angiogenic growth factors and has previously been shown to stimulate angiogenic activity. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: The hypothesis tested was that a viable 3DFC cardiac patch would stimulate an angiogenic response within an area of infarcted cardiac tissue. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS A coronary occlusion of a branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery was performed by thermal ligation in severe combined immunodeficient mice. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: 3DFCs with or without viable cells were sized to the damaged area, implanted in replicate mice onto the epicardium at the site of tissue injury, and compared with animals that received infarct surgery but no implant. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Fourteen and 30 days after surgery, hearts were exposed and photographed, and tissue samples were prepared for histology and cytochemistry. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Fourteen and 30 days after surgery, the damaged myocardium receiving viable 3DFC exhibited a significantly greater angiogenic response (including arterioles, venules, and capillaries) than nonviable and untreated control groups. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: CONCLUSIONS In this animal model, viable 3DFC stimulates angiogenesis within a region of cardiac infarction and can augment a repair response in damaged tissue. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Therefore, a potential use for 3DFC is the repair of myocardial tissue damaged by infarction. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: BACKGROUND Endothelium-dependent modulation of coronary tone is impaired in the collateral-dependent coronary microcirculation. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: We used a porcine model of chronic coronary occlusion and collateral development to evaluate the hypothesis that exercise training enhances endothelium-mediated relaxation and increases endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ecNOS) mRNA levels of collateral-dependent microvasculature. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: METHODS AND RESULTS Adult female miniature swine were subjected to chronic, progressive ameroid occlusion of the proximal left circumflex coronary artery (LCx); after 2 months, animals were randomly exposed to 16-week exercise-training (EX group; treadmill running) or sedentary (SED group; cage confinement) protocols. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: After completion of EX or SED programs, coronary arterioles ( approximately 100 microm in diameter) were isolated from collateral-dependent LCx (distal to occlusion) and nonoccluded left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) regions of each heart. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Arterioles were studied by in vitro videomicroscopy or frozen for ecNOS mRNA analysis (RT-PCR techniques). Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Relaxation to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator bradykinin was decreased (P<0.05) in arterioles isolated from collateral-dependent LCx versus nonoccluded LAD regions of SED animals. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Bradykinin-mediated relaxation, however, was not different in LCx versus LAD arterioles isolated from EX animals. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Nitroprusside-induced relaxation was unaffected by either chronic occlusion or exercise. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Importantly, ecNOS mRNA expression was significantly decreased in arterioles isolated from LCx versus LAD regions of SED animals. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: After training, ecNOS mRNA expression was not different between LAD and LCx arterioles. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: CONCLUSIONS These data indicate that exercise training enhances bradykinin-mediated relaxation of collateral-dependent LCx arterioles isolated after chronic coronary occlusion, most likely because of effects on ecNOS mRNA expression and increased production of NO. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: Human blastocyst-derived, pluripotent cell lines are described that have normal karyotypes, express high levels of telomerase activity, and express cell surface markers that characterize primate embryonic stem cells but do not characterize other early lineages. Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: After undifferentiated proliferation in vitro for 4 to 5 months, these cells still maintained the developmental potential to form trophoblast and derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers, including gut epithelium (endoderm); cartilage, bone, smooth muscle, and striated muscle (mesoderm); and neural epithelium, embryonic ganglia, and stratified squamous epithelium (ectoderm). Relevant:
Query: Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. Document: These cell lines should be useful in human developmental biology, drug discovery, and transplantation medicine. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Vitamin D insufficiency is common, however within individuals, not all manifest the biochemical effects of PTH excess. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: This further extends to patients with established osteoporosis. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: The mechanism underlying the blunted PTH response is unclear but may be related to magnesium (Mg) deficiency. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: The aims of this study were to compare in patients with established osteoporosis and differing degrees of vitamin D and PTH status : (1) the presence of Mg deficiency using the standard Mg loading test (2) evaluate the effects of Mg loading on the calcium-PTH endocrine axis (3) determine the effects of oral, short term Mg supplementation on the calcium-PTH endocrine axis and bone turnover. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: 30 patients (10 women in 3 groups) were evaluated prospectively measuring calcium, PTH, Mg retention (Mg loading test), dietary nutrient intake (calcium, vitamin D, Mg) and bone turnover markers (serum CTX & P1CP). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Multivariate analysis controlling for potential confounding baseline variable was undertaken for the measured outcomes. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: All subjects, within the low vitamin D and low PTH group following the magnesium loading test had evidence of Mg depletion [mean(SD) retention 70.3%(12.5)] and showed an increase in calcium 0.06(0.01) mmol/l [95% CI 0.03, 0.09, p=0.007], together with a rise in PTH 13.3 ng/l (4.5) [95% CI 3.2, 23.4, p=0.016] compared to baseline. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Following oral supplementation bone turnover increased: CTX 0.16 (0.06) mcg/l [95%CI 0.01, 0.32 p=0.047]; P1CP 13.1 (5.7) mcg/l [95% CI 0.29, 26.6 p=0.049]. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: In subjects with a low vitamin D and raised PTH mean retention was 55.9%(14.8) and in the vitamin replete group 36.1%(14.4), with little change in both acute markers of calcium homeostasis and bone turnover markers following both the loading test and oral supplementation. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: This study confirms that in patients with established osteoporosis, there is also a distinct group with a low vitamin D and a blunted PTH level and that Mg deficiency (as measured by the Mg loading test) is an important contributing factor. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: The hormonal metabolite of vitamin D, 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D), initiates biological responses via binding to the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: When occupied by 1,25D, VDR interacts with the retinoid X receptor (RXR) to form a heterodimer that binds to vitamin D responsive elements in the region of genes directly controlled by 1,25D. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: By recruiting complexes of either coactivators or corepressors, ligand-activated VDR-RXR modulates the transcription of genes encoding proteins that promulgate the traditional functions of vitamin D, including signaling intestinal calcium and phosphate absorption to effect skeletal and calcium homeostasis. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Thus, vitamin D action in a particular cell depends upon the metabolic production or delivery of sufficient concentrations of the 1,25D ligand, expression of adequate VDR and RXR coreceptor proteins, and cell-specific programming of transcriptional responses to regulate select genes that encode proteins that function in mediating the effects of vitamin D. For example, 1,25D induces RANKL, SPP1 (osteopontin), and BGP (osteocalcin) to govern bone mineral remodeling; TRPV6, CaBP9k, and claudin 2 to promote intestinal calcium absorption; and TRPV5, klotho, and Npt2c to regulate renal calcium and phosphate reabsorption. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: VDR appears to function unliganded by 1,25D in keratinocytes to drive mammalian hair cycling via regulation of genes such as CASP14, S100A8, SOSTDC1, and others affecting Wnt signaling. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Finally, alternative, low-affinity, non-vitamin D VDR ligands, e.g., lithocholic acid, docosahexaenoic acid, and curcumin, have been reported. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Combined alternative VDR ligand(s) and 1,25D/VDR control of gene expression may delay chronic disorders of aging such as osteoporosis, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: We performed a meta-analysis of cross-sectional studies on serum 25(OH)D status globally. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Serum 25(OH)D levels on average were 54 nmol/l, were higher in women than men, and higher in Caucasians than in non-Caucasians. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: There was no trend in serum 25(OH)D level with latitude. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Vitamin D deficiency was widespread. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: We studied vitamin D status (expressed as serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D [25(OH)D]) in native subjects worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Meta-analysis and meta-regression of studies reporting on 25(OH)D in healthy subjects retrieved from Pubmed, Embase and Web of Science using the terms “serum”, “25-hydroxy-vitamin D”, “cholecalciferol”, and “human”. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: A total of 394 studies were included. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: The mean 25(OH)D level was 54 nmol/l (95% CI: 52–57 nmol/l). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Women had borderline significantly higher 25(OH)D levels than men, and Caucasians had higher levels than non-Caucasians. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: 25(OH)D levels were higher in subjects aged >15 years than in younger subjects. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: Unadjusted there was no significant decrease in 25(OH)D with latitude (slope of curve −0.03 ± 0.12 nmol/l per degree latitude north or south of equator, p = 0.8). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: There was a significant decline with latitude for Caucasians (−0.69 ± 0.30 nmol/l per degree, p = 0.02), but not for non-Caucasians (0.03 ± 0.39 nmol/l per degree, p = 0.14). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: After adjustment for age, gender, and ethnicity, no overall correlation was present between 25(OH)D and latitude (−0.29 ± 0.24 nmol/l per degree, p = 0.23). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: There was no overall influence of latitude on 25(OH)D. However, in separate analyses 25(OH)D decreased with latitude in Caucasians but not in non-Caucasians. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. Document: A widespread global vitamin D insufficiency was present compared with proposed threshold levels. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: OBJECTIVE To assess the effect of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD) levels on pregnancy outcomes and birth variables. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: DESIGN Systematic review and meta-analysis. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: DATA SOURCES Medline (1966 to August 2012), PubMed (2008 to August 2012), Embase (1980 to August 2012), CINAHL (1981 to August 2012), the Cochrane database of systematic reviews, and the Cochrane database of registered clinical trials. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: STUDY SELECTION Studies reporting on the association between serum 25-OHD levels during pregnancy and the outcomes of interest (pre-eclampsia, gestational diabetes, bacterial vaginosis, caesarean section, small for gestational age infants, birth weight, birth length, and head circumference). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: DATA EXTRACTION Two authors independently extracted data from original research articles, including key indicators of study quality. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: We pooled the most adjusted odds ratios and weighted mean differences. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Associations were tested in subgroups representing different patient characteristics and study quality. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: RESULTS 3357 studies were identified and reviewed for eligibility. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: 31 eligible studies were included in the final analysis. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Insufficient serum levels of 25-OHD were associated with gestational diabetes (pooled odds ratio 1.49, 95% confidence interval 1.18 to 1.89), pre-eclampsia (1.79, 1.25 to 2.58), and small for gestational age infants (1.85, 1.52 to 2.26). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Pregnant women with low serum 25-OHD levels had an increased risk of bacterial vaginosis and low birthweight infants but not delivery by caesarean section. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: CONCLUSION Vitamin D insufficiency is associated with an increased risk of gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, and small for gestational age infants. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Pregnant women with low 25-OHD levels had an increased risk of bacterial vaginosis and lower birth weight infants, but not delivery by caesarean section. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Vitamin D insufficiency affects almost 50% of the population worldwide. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: An estimated 1 billion people worldwide, across all ethnicities and age groups, have a vitamin D deficiency (VDD). Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: This pandemic of hypovitaminosis D can mainly be attributed to lifestyle (for example, reduced outdoor activities) and environmental (for example, air pollution) factors that reduce exposure to sunlight, which is required for ultraviolet-B (UVB)-induced vitamin D production in the skin. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: High prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency is a particularly important public health issue because hypovitaminosis D is an independent risk factor for total mortality in the general population. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Current studies suggest that we may need more vitamin D than presently recommended to prevent chronic disease. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: As the number of people with VDD continues to increase, the importance of this hormone in overall health and the prevention of chronic diseases are at the forefront of research. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: VDD is very common in all age groups. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: As few foods contain vitamin D, guidelines recommended supplementation at suggested daily intake and tolerable upper limit levels. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: It is also suggested to measure the serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level as the initial diagnostic test in patients at risk for deficiency. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Treatment with either vitamin D2 or vitamin D3 is recommended for deficient patients. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: A meta-analysis published in 2007 showed that vitamin D supplementation was associated with significantly reduced mortality. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: In this review, we will summarize the mechanisms that are presumed to underlie the relationship between vitamin D and understand its biology and clinical implications. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Vitamin D, the sunshine vitamin, is now recognized not only for its importance in promoting bone health in children and adults but also for other health benefits, including reducing the risk of chronic diseases such as autoimmune diseases, common cancer, and cardiovascular disease. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Vitamin D made in the skin or ingested in the diet is biologically inert and requires 2 successive hydroxylations first in the liver on carbon 25 to form 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D], and then in the kidney for a hydroxylation on carbon 1 to form the biologically active form of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)(2)D]. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: With the identification of 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)(2)D, methods were developed to measure these metabolites in the circulation. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Serum 25(OH)D is the barometer for vitamin D status. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Serum 1,25(OH)(2)D provides no information about vitamin D status and is often normal or even increased as the result of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with vitamin D deficiency. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: Most experts agree that 25(OH)D of <20 ng/mL is considered to be vitamin D deficiency, whereas a 25(OH)D of 21-29 ng/mL is considered to be insufficient. Relevant:
Query: Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. Document: The goal should be to maintain both children and adults at a level >30 ng/mL to take full advantage of all the health benefits that vitamin D provides. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Birth weight is a significant predictor of breast cancer risk in adult life and mammary gland mass could be an intermediate stage in this long process. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: We have studied the association of birth size measurements with mammographic density, a marker of mammary gland mass. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: For a population-based sample of 893 postmenopausal women without previous cancer in Sweden, we retrieved information on birth size from birth records and their most recent mammography. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Film mammograms of the medio-lateral oblique view were digitized and the Cumulus software was used for computer-assisted semi-automated thresholding of mammographic density. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Results were analyzed using generalized linear models controlling for possible confounders. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Mean percent mammographic density increased when comparing the extreme categories of birth weight (from 15.6% to 18.6%) and head circumference (from 15.5% to 20.4%), and the corresponding linear trends were statistically significant (p values 0.02 and 0.007, respectively). Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: The associations were particularly strong when the cutoff for high versus low mammographic density was set at the relatively high value of 50%. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Compared to women weighing 3001-3500 grams at birth, women with birth weights >4000g were at almost 3-fold risk of developing high mammographic density (odds ratio: 2.9, 95% confidence interval 1.1 to 7.9). Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: No association with mammographic density was evident with respect to birth length which, however, is known to be less accurately measured. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: These results indicate that adult breast density, a powerful predictor of breast cancer risk, has intrauterine roots, as reflected in birth size. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: CONTEXT During pregnancy, serum levels of estrogen, progesterone, and other hormones are markedly higher than during other periods of life. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Pregnancy hormones primarily are produced in the placenta, and signs of placental impairment may serve as indirect markers of hormone exposures during pregnancy. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: During pregnancy, these markers have been inconsistently associated with subsequent risk of breast cancer in the mother. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: OBJECTIVE To examine associations between indirect markers of hormonal exposures, such as placental weight and other pregnancy characteristics, and maternal risk of developing breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: DESIGN AND SETTING Population-based cohort study using data from the Swedish Birth Register, the Swedish Cancer Register, the Swedish Cause of Death Register, and the Swedish Register of Population and Population Changes. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: PARTICIPANTS Women included in the Sweden Birth Register who delivered singletons between 1982 and 1989, with complete information on date of birth and gestational age. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Women were followed up until the occurrence of breast cancer, death, or end of follow-up (December 31, 2001). Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate associations between hormone exposures and risks of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Incidence of invasive breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: RESULTS Of 314,019 women in the cohort, 2216 (0.7%) developed breast cancer during the follow-up through 2001, of whom 2100 (95%) were diagnosed before age 50 years. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Compared with women who had placentas weighing less than 500 g in 2 consecutive pregnancies, the risk of breast cancer was increased among women whose placentas weighed between 500 and 699 g in their first pregnancy and at least 700 g in their second pregnancy (or vice versa) (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.82; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.07-3.08), and the corresponding risk was doubled among women whose placentas weighed at least 700 g in both pregnancies (adjusted hazard ratio, 2.05; 95% CI, 1.15-3.64). Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: A high birth weight (> or =4000 g) in 2 successive births was associated with an increased risk of breast cancer before but not after adjusting for placental weight and other covariates (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.76-1.59). Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: CONCLUSIONS Placental weight is positively associated with maternal risk of breast cancer. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: These results further support the hypothesis that pregnancy hormones are important modifiers of subsequent maternal breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: INTRODUCTION Various perinatal factors, including birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and parental smoking, have been postulated to affect breast cancer risk in daughters by altering the hormonal environment of the developing fetal mammary glands. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Despite ample biologic plausibility, epidemiologic studies to date have yielded conflicting results. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: We investigated the associations between perinatal factors and subsequent breast cancer risk through meta-analyses. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: METHODS We reviewed breast cancer studies published from January 1966 to February 2007 that included data on birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and maternal or paternal smoking. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Meta-analyses using random effect models were employed to summarize the results. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: RESULTS We found that heavier birth weights were associated with increased breast cancer risk, with studies involving five categories of birth weight identifying odds ratios (ORs) of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04 to 1.48) for 4,000 g or more and 1.15 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.26) for 3,500 g to 3,999 g, relative to a birth weight of 2,500 to 2,599 g. These studies provided no support for a J-shaped relationship of birthweight to risk. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Support for an association with birthweight was also derived from studies based on three birth weight categories (OR 1.15 [95% CI 1.01 to 1.31] for > or =4,000 g relative to <3,000 g) and two birth weight categories (OR 1.09 [95% CI 1.02 to 1.18] for > or =3,000 g relative to <3,000 g). Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Women born to older mothers and twins were also at some increased risk, but the results were heterogeneous across studies and publication years. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: Birth order, prematurity, and maternal smoking were unrelated to breast cancer risk. Relevant:
Query: Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. Document: CONCLUSION Our findings provide some support for the hypothesis that in utero exposures reflective of higher endogenous hormone levels could affect risk for development of breast cancer in adulthood. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Cancer cells have metabolic dependencies that distinguish them from their normal counterparts. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Among these dependencies is an increased use of the amino acid glutamine to fuel anabolic processes. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Indeed, the spectrum of glutamine-dependent tumours and the mechanisms whereby glutamine supports cancer metabolism remain areas of active investigation. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Here we report the identification of a non-canonical pathway of glutamine use in human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells that is required for tumour growth. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Whereas most cells use glutamate dehydrogenase (GLUD1) to convert glutamine-derived glutamate into α-ketoglutarate in the mitochondria to fuel the tricarboxylic acid cycle, PDAC relies on a distinct pathway in which glutamine-derived aspartate is transported into the cytoplasm where it can be converted into oxaloacetate by aspartate transaminase (GOT1). Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Subsequently, this oxaloacetate is converted into malate and then pyruvate, ostensibly increasing the NADPH/NADP(+) ratio which can potentially maintain the cellular redox state. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Importantly, PDAC cells are strongly dependent on this series of reactions, as glutamine deprivation or genetic inhibition of any enzyme in this pathway leads to an increase in reactive oxygen species and a reduction in reduced glutathione. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Moreover, knockdown of any component enzyme in this series of reactions also results in a pronounced suppression of PDAC growth in vitro and in vivo. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Furthermore, we establish that the reprogramming of glutamine metabolism is mediated by oncogenic KRAS, the signature genetic alteration in PDAC, through the transcriptional upregulation and repression of key metabolic enzymes in this pathway. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: The essentiality of this pathway in PDAC and the fact that it is dispensable in normal cells may provide novel therapeutic approaches to treat these refractory tumours. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Macropinocytosis is a highly conserved endocytic process by which extracellular fluid and its contents are internalized into cells through large, heterogeneous vesicles known as macropinosomes. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Oncogenic Ras proteins have been shown to stimulate macropinocytosis but the functional contribution of this uptake mechanism to the transformed phenotype remains unknown. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Here we show that Ras-transformed cells use macropinocytosis to transport extracellular protein into the cell. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: The internalized protein undergoes proteolytic degradation, yielding amino acids including glutamine that can enter central carbon metabolism. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Accordingly, the dependence of Ras-transformed cells on free extracellular glutamine for growth can be suppressed by the macropinocytic uptake of protein. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Consistent with macropinocytosis representing an important route of nutrient uptake in tumours, its pharmacological inhibition compromises the growth of Ras-transformed pancreatic tumour xenografts. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: These results identify macropinocytosis as a mechanism by which cancer cells support their unique metabolic needs and point to the possible exploitation of this process in the design of anticancer therapies. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Amino acids control cell growth via activation of the highly conserved kinase TORC1. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Glutamine is a particularly important amino acid in cell growth control and metabolism. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: However, the role of glutamine in TORC1 activation remains poorly defined. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Glutamine is metabolized through glutaminolysis to produce α-ketoglutarate. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: We demonstrate that glutamine in combination with leucine activates mammalian TORC1 (mTORC1) by enhancing glutaminolysis and α-ketoglutarate production. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Inhibition of glutaminolysis prevented GTP loading of RagB and lysosomal translocation and subsequent activation of mTORC1. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Constitutively active Rag heterodimer activated mTORC1 in the absence of glutaminolysis. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Conversely, enhanced glutaminolysis or a cell-permeable α-ketoglutarate analog stimulated lysosomal translocation and activation of mTORC1. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Finally, cell growth and autophagy, two processes controlled by mTORC1, were regulated by glutaminolysis. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: Thus, mTORC1 senses and is activated by glutamine and leucine via glutaminolysis and α-ketoglutarate production upstream of Rag. Relevant:
Query: aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. Document: This may provide an explanation for glutamine addiction in cancer cells. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: T cell activation is predicated on the interaction between the T cell receptor and peptide-major histocompatibility (pMHC) ligands. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: The factors that determine the stimulatory potency of a pMHC molecule remain unclear. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: We describe results showing that a peptide exhibiting many hallmarks of a weak agonist stimulates T cells to proliferate more than the wild-type agonist ligand. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: An in silico approach suggested that the inability to form the central supramolecular activation cluster (cSMAC) could underlie the increased proliferation. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: This conclusion was supported by experiments that showed that enhancing cSMAC formation reduced stimulatory capacity of the weak peptide. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: Our studies highlight the fact that a complex interplay of factors determines the quality of a T cell antigen. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: T cell receptor (TCR) signaling is initiated and sustained in microclusters; however, it's not known whether signaling also occurs in the TCR-rich central supramolecular activation cluster (cSMAC). Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: We showed that the cSMAC formed by fusion of microclusters contained more CD45 than microclusters and is a site enriched in lysobisphosphatidic acid, a lipid involved in sorting ubiquitinated membrane proteins for degradation. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: Calcium signaling via TCR was blocked within 2 min by anti-MHCp treatment and 1 min by latrunculin-A treatment. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: TCR-MHCp interactions in the cSMAC survived these perturbations for 10 min and hence were not sufficient to sustain signaling. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: TCR microclusters were also resistant to disruption by anti-MHCp and latrunculin-A treatments. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: We propose that TCR signaling is sustained by stabilized microclusters and is terminated in the cSMAC, a structure from which TCR are sorted for degradation. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: Our studies reveal a role for F-actin in TCR signaling beyond microcluster formation. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: T cell receptor (TCR) ligation is required for the extrathymic differentiation of forkhead box p3(+) (Foxp3(+)) regulatory T cells. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: Several lines of evidence indicate that weak TCR stimulation favors induction of Foxp3 in the periphery; however, it remains to be determined how TCR ligand potency influences this process. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: We characterized the density and affinity of TCR ligand favorable for Foxp3 induction and found that a low dose of a strong agonist resulted in maximal induction of Foxp3 in vivo. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: Initial Foxp3 induction by weak agonist peptide could be enhanced by disruption of TCR-peptide major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) interactions or alteration of peptide dose. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: However, time course experiments revealed that Foxp3-positive cells induced by weak agonist stimulation are deleted, along with their Foxp3-negative counterparts, whereas Foxp3-positive cells induced by low doses of the strong agonist persist. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: Our results suggest that, together, pMHC ligand potency, density, and duration of TCR interactions define a cumulative quantity of TCR stimulation that determines initial peripheral Foxp3 induction. Relevant:
Query: cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. Document: However, in the persistence of induced Foxp3(+) T cells, TCR ligand potency and density are noninterchangeable factors that influence the route to peripheral tolerance. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Mutations in cancer reprogram amino acid metabolism to drive tumor growth, but the molecular mechanisms are not well understood. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Using an unbiased proteomic screen, we identified mTORC2 as a critical regulator of amino acid metabolism in cancer via phosphorylation of the cystine-glutamate antiporter xCT. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: mTORC2 phosphorylates serine 26 at the cytosolic N terminus of xCT, inhibiting its activity. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Genetic inhibition of mTORC2, or pharmacologic inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase, promotes glutamate secretion, cystine uptake, and incorporation into glutathione, linking growth factor receptor signaling with amino acid uptake and utilization. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: These results identify an unanticipated mechanism regulating amino acid metabolism in cancer, enabling tumor cells to adapt to changing environmental conditions. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Proteolytic processing of the beta-amyloid precursor proteins (APP) is required for release of the beta/A4 protein and its deposition into the amyloid plaques characteristic of aging and Alzheimer's disease. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: We have examined the involvement of acidic intracellular compartments in APP processing in cultured human cells. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: The use of acidotropic agents and inhibitors to a specific class of lysosomal protease, coupled with metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation, revealed that APP is degraded within an acidic compartment to produce at least 12 COOH-terminal fragments. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Nine likely contain the entire beta/A4 domain and, therefore, are potentially amyloidogenic. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Treatment with E64 or Z-Phe-Ala-CHN2 irreversibly blocked activities of the lysosomal cysteine proteases cathepsins B and L but did not inhibit the lysosomal aspartic protease cathepsin D and did not alter the production of potentially amyloidogenic fragments. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Instead, the inhibitors prevented further degradation of the fragments. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Thus, large numbers of potentially amyloidogenic fragments of APP are routinely generated in an acidic compartment by noncysteine proteases and then are eliminated within lysosomes by cysteine proteases. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses confirmed that chronic cysteine protease inhibition leads to accumulation of potentially amyloidogenic APP fragments in lysosomes. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: The results provide further support for the hypothesis that an acidic compartment may be involved in amyloid formation and begin to define the proteolytic events that may be important for amyloidogenesis. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Autophagy is a recently recognized immune effector mechanism against intracellular pathogens. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: The role of autophagy in innate immunity has been well established, but the extent of its regulation by the adaptive immune response is less well understood. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: The T helper 1 (Th1) cell cytokine IFN-gamma induces autophagy in macrophages to eliminate Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Here, we report that Th2 cytokines affect autophagy in macrophages and their ability to control intracellular M. tuberculosis. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: IL-4 and IL-13 abrogated autophagy and autophagy-mediated killing of intracellular mycobacteria in murine and human macrophages. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: Inhibition of starvation-induced autophagy by IL-4 and IL-13 was dependent on Akt signaling, whereas the inhibition of IFN-gamma-induced autophagy was Akt independent and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) dependent. Relevant:
Query: mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. Document: These findings establish a mechanism through which Th1-Th2 polarization differentially affects the immune control of intracellular pathogens. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: BACKGROUND Technological advancements in neuroimaging and the increased use of these diagnostic modalities are responsible for the discovery of incidentally identified anomalies within the CNS. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: In addition to the identification of unanticipated brain MRI abnormalities suggestive of demyelinating disease in patients undergoing neuroimaging for a medical reason other than evaluation for multiple sclerosis (MS), asymptomatic spinal cord lesions are periodically identified. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: OBJECTIVE To determine if asymptomatic spinal cord lesions are associated with clinical progression in subjects with radiologically isolated syndrome (RIS). Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: METHODS A retrospective review of RIS cases at the University of California, San Francisco Multiple Sclerosis Center was performed. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: The presence of asymptomatic cervical spinal cord MRI lesions was analyzed as a potential predictor for clinical progression. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: RESULTS Twenty-five of 71 subjects with RIS possessed findings within the cervical spine that were highly suggestive of demyelinating disease. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Of these subjects, 21 (84%) progressed clinically to clinically isolated syndrome (n = 19) or primary progressive multiple sclerosis (n = 2) over a median time of 1.6 years from the date of RIS identification (interquartile range 0.8-3.8). Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: The sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of an asymptomatic spinal cord lesion for subsequent development of either a first demyelinating attack or primary progressive MS were 87.5%, 91.5%, and 84%, respectively. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: The odds ratio of clinical progression was 75.3 (95% confidence interval 16.1-350.0, p < 0.0001). Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: This association remained significant after adjusting for potential confounders. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: CONCLUSION These findings suggest that the presence of asymptomatic spinal cord lesions place subjects with RIS at substantial risk for clinical conversion to either an acute or progressive event, a risk that is independent of brain lesions on MRI. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Metastatic ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death among women with gynecologic malignancies in the United States. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: The lack of effective treatment for patients with advanced ovarian cancer warrants development of innovative therapies. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Cancer therapy using oncolytic viruses represents a promising new approach for controlling tumors. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Vaccinia virus has been shown to preferentially infect tumor cells but not normal tissue. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: However, oncolytic therapy using recombinant viruses faces the limitation of viral clearance due to generation of neutralizing antibodies. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: In the current study, we found that cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) inhibitors circumvented this limitation, enabling repeated administration of vaccinia virus without losing infectivity. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: We quantified the antivaccinia antibody response using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and neutralization assays to show that treatment of Cox-2 inhibitors inhibited the generation of neutralizing antibodies. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Furthermore, we showed that combination treatment of Cox-2 inhibitors with vaccinia virus was more effective that either treatment alone in treating MOSEC/luc tumor-bearing mice. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Thus, the combination of Cox-2 inhibitors and vaccinia virus represents a potential innovative approach to controlling ovarian tumors. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: This review will reconsider the current paradigm for understanding the critical, final steps in the progression of atherosclerotic lesions. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: That scheme, largely an outgrowth of observations of autopsy tissues by Davies and colleagues,1 2 asserts that the cause of death in atherosclerotic coronary artery disease is rupture of an advanced atherosclerotic lesion. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Although this assumption may be partially true, recent autopsy studies suggest that it is incomplete. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: To reconsider this paradigm, we reexamined the morphological classification scheme for lesions proposed by the American Heart Association (AHA).3 4 This scheme is difficult to use for 2 reasons. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: First, it uses a very long list of roman numerals modified by letter codes that are difficult to remember. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Second, it implies an orderly, linear pattern of lesion progression. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: This tends to be ambiguous, because it is not clear whether there is a single sequence of events during the progression of all lesions. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: We have therefore tried to devise a simpler classification scheme that is consistent with the AHA categories but is easier to use, able to deal with a wide array of morphological variations, and not overly burdened by mechanistic implications. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: The current paradigm is based on the belief that type IV lesions, or “atheromas,” described by the AHA are stable because the fatty, necrotic core is contained by a smooth muscle cell–rich fibrous cap. Relevant:
Query: p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). Document: Virchow’s analysis5 in 1858 pointed out that historically, the term “atheroma” refers to a dermal cyst (“Grutzbalg”), a fatty … Relevant:
